The All Progressives Congress (APC) has accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of attempting to hold the people of Ondo state to ransom.
Describing the call for the postponement of Saturday’s election as “bizzare”, the ruling party asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to disregard the request.
The Ahmed Makarfi faction of the PDP made the demand on Saturday.
But in a statement on Sunday, Mai Mala Buni, national secretary of the APC, advised the PDP to resolve its internal crisis.
Taunting the opposition party, Buni described the tussle between Eyitayo Jegede of Makarfi faction and Jimoh Ibrahim of the Ali Modu Sheriff group, as “self-inflicted”.
“The attention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been drawn to a bizarre request by a faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to postpone the November 26 governorship election in Ondo state on account of the PDP’s internal crisis,” the statement read.
“The PDP in continuation of its wild conspiracies on the Ondo governorship election has also accused the APC of colluding with the judicial system, INEC and security agencies to manipulate the outcome of the Ondo election.
“The PDP crisis and the aftermath governorship candidate tussle within its ranks are self-inflicted and the PDP cannot hold Ondo state and indeed the country hostage on account of its internal crisis. Instead of making the ridiculous election postponement request on INEC, the PDP should focus and redirect its energy towards putting its house in order.
“The APC is not party to any scheme to subvert justice and undermine the very progressive and participatory democracy which the APC fiercely stands for. The APC calls on INEC to ignore PDP’s bizarre request and concentrate on delivering a free, fair, credible and transparent ballot on election day.
“The Ondo electorate are wise and will vote for the candidate with a proven track record of performance on election day. A vote for the tested, trusted and credible APC governorship candidate, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN will bring about massive multi-faceted development which has eluded the state.”
Okon Abang, a judge of the federal high court, Abuja, had ordered the replacement of Jegede with Ibrahim as the PDP governorship candidate in Ondo.
Subsequently, Eyitayo asked the court of appeal to set aside the decision of the lower court and restore him as the party candidate.
The court of appeal has adjourned the matter indefinitely following a petition, challenging the panel hearing the matter.