Share this on WhatsApp



Kia Motors has unveiled four all-new customized vehicles at the opening day of the 2016 Specialty Equipment Market Association (SEMA) Show which began yesterday at Las Vegas, USA.
Envisioning a future when vehicles will not only drive autonomously but be tailor-built to our lifestyles, each concept sparks the imagination of what could be just around the corner. Also making its SEMA debut is the Telluride full-size hybrid SUV concept that was first unveiled early this year at the North American International Auto Show.
Kia’s autonomous Niro Triathlon offers refuge in a cabin designed to relax and recharge while also providing top-notch training and safety equipment. The 2017 Niro hybrid has been transformed into a true crossover-utility lifestyle vehicle. Removal of the roof from the D-pillars back creates a small bed and allows for the custom bike rack, tool box and tablet computer mount.
Kia has also turned over a Sedona minivan (known as ‘Grand Carnival’ in some countries) to LGE-CTS, set a creative session with all the concerned parties and the School of Rock Sedona gig van was born.
 
Significant enhancements to the Sedona include the removal of the driver-side B-pillar, steering assembly and gear selector. This makes room for a digital mixing board and dual flat-screen monitors to record tracks.
Taking the idea of a sport-utility vehicle to new heights – literally and figuratively – this custom Kia Sorento was built by LUX Motorwerks to tackle slippery terrain. The luxurious and self-driving Sorento Ski Gondola is all about climbing to higher ground in style, comfort and warmth.
The Sorento Ski Gondola’s interior has been upgraded with custom door panels, dash and center console, which houses a personalized tablet. Throughout the interior the floor was given a durable waterproof Line-X treatment to protect against the ice and snow that may find its way inside.
Eliminating the need for a driver, the Soul First Class has a revamped front dash which now houses two rear-facing front seats. The Soul’s passengers are then greeted by a 40-inch Samsung LED TV connected to a Mac mini computer system and premium audio speakers throughout.
The Soul’s exterior brings about the same level of luxury as the interior with PPG Lux Blue paint and modified upper and lower grilles with LED lighting. The 19-inch Rotiform Monoblock CCV wheels bring a modern vibe to the car’s exterior and round out the complete autonomous vehicle inspired overhaul.
The Telluride, a striking three-row, seven-passenger, luxury hybrid SUV concept features a modern and upright shape, muscular stance, and state-of-the-art technology to care for its occupants.  Purely conceptual, the Kia Telluride is based on an existing platform and reveals the brand’s interest in potentially offering a premium SUV positioned above the current hot-selling Sorento.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment