Share this on WhatsApp




By Lanre Adesanya
Erring officials of Lands bureau tendered apologies to the Lagos State House of Assembly, for failure to honour invitation of its committee.
It would be recalled that the House had summoned the Permanent Secretary and the Executive Secretary of the bureau, Mr Shuaheeb Agoro and Mr Olukayode Ogunnubi, for having disregarded calls made by the committee on a disputed land matter, occasioned by a petition to the House by Iju Youth Action Committee.
Hon.Olusola Sokunle, Chairman, House Committee on Special and Inter-government Relation, had informed the House about the affected top officials’ disregard for committee’s previous invitation while investigating the matter.
The officials, who tendered their unreserved apologies for disregarding the committee, vowed never to be caught in the web again.
Agoro said, “I want to sincerely apologise, we do not mean to disregard any invitation by the House. We accept the blame and henceforth, any committee meeting, will be attended by top officials of the bureau.
“We will never ever disregard any invitation by the House again,” he said.
Ogunnubi added, “I just want to apologise to the House, l want to plead with the House and we will not do that again.”
However, the lawmakers, who condemned such disregard, took turns to appeal to other colleagues to pardon the erring officials having tendered apology.
Mr Tunde Braimoh, the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Strategy and Security called for better cooperation from different institutions of government with the legislature.
Braimoh who represents Kosofe II at the house noted that, ” We expect all government functionaries to be atune with the tenets of democracy. We should not allow ourselves to be instrument of discord among different arms of government.
“With this apology, let’s temper justice with mercy.”
Hon. Lanre Ogunyemi, the Chairman, House Committee on Education urged the officials to be acquainted with legislative process, adding the officials should know the House operates by committee system.
“The committee holds power in proxy for the Speaker and the House, so refusing the committee is refusing the Speaker himself. No institution should jettison the invitation of the House.
“Things like this can cause rift between the House and the executive. Be more conscious of your relationship with the House,” Ogunyemi who represents Ojo II constituency said.
Also speaking, Tobun, the Chairman, House Committee on Works and Infrastructures said that the people of Lagos had handed the House the sovereignty to hold in trust for them
According to Tobun, what the affected officials has done is disregarding the entire people of Lagos.
Hon.Victor Akande who represents Ojo I constituency in his own  contribution on the matter stressed that the House had the power to summon any government official, adding that if any disrespected the House, the legislature had the constitutional powers to issue warrant of arrest.
The Speaker of the House, Mr Mudashiru Obasa said, “Relate with the House with respect. This is an institution on its own. There is need for us to work together if we must progress.
“All committees are acting on behalf of the House, I appeal to you that whenever you are invited, kindly respect it. We are working together for the interest of the people.”








Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment