Because a defence lawyer in the $15 million money laundering trial of aides to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan fell sick, a Federal High Court in Lagos, on Thursday, fixed November 21 for continuation of the trial.
Waripamo Dudafa,  alongside one Joseph Iwejuo, is facing 23-counts of conspiracy and concealment of crime proceeds, brought against the duo by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC.
They had both pleaded not guilty to the charges during their arraignment.
Justice Mohammed Idris on Thursday, adjourned the case for continuation on November 21 and December 2, following the absence of counsel to Dudafa, Gboyega Oyewole, who was said to be ill.
The prosecutor, Rotimi Oyedepo, had confirmed knowledge of the situation to the court before the adjournment.
When the case came up earlier on November 8, the trial had also been stalled following the absence of the prosecutor, who was said to be before the appellate court in Lagos.
In the charge, the accused were alleged to have, on June 11, 2013, conspired to conceal proceeds of crime amounting to over N1.6 billion.
It was alleged that they concealed the sum through a company, Seagate Property Development and Investment Ltd,
They were alleged to have also used Avalon Global Property Development Company Ltd to launder over N399 million.
Other companies allegedly used in perpetrating the crime include Pluto Property and Investment Company Ltd, Rotato Inter Link Services Ltd, and De Jakes Fast Food and Restaurant Nigerian Ltd.
Mr. Dudafa was alleged to have, between June 1 and June 4, 2015, contracted Iwejuo and Ebiwise Resources Ltd, to conceal N150 million, being alleged proceeds of crime.
The EFCC also alleged that on April 27, Mr. Dudafa failed to furnish any information in relation to over N616 million held on his behalf by Seagate Property’s account.
The prosecution said he also failed to disclose the sum of N560 million held for him by De Jakes Fast Food Ltd, as well as the sum of N10 million held for him by Ibejige Services Ltd.
The offence is said to have contravened the provisions of Section 27 (3) (c) of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (Establishment) Act 2004.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			139