The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode on Tuesday constituted the Board of the Neighbourhood Safety Agency, in consonance with his quest to strengthen the security of the State and safeguard its local communities.
Consequently, he has approved the appointment of former DIG Israel Ajao (Rtd), as the Chairman of the Board.
A statement by the State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Adeniji Kazeem, further revealed other appointees by the Governor.
Such names include Mr. Gboyega Bajulaiye as the Executive Secretary of the Board. Others are a representative Of the State Commissioner Of Police, Suleiman Lewi (CSP); Chairman Lagos Task Force, Yinka Egbeyemi (SP); a representative of the Department of State Security Service (DSS); Executive Security, Lagos State Security Trust Fund, Mr. Razaq Balogun.
Others are Community Representatives of Epe Division, Dengel Anifowoshe; Ikeja Division, Chief Tunde Aboyade; Lagos Division, Mr. Ishola Laguda; Badagry Division, Mrs. Ronke Ogabi; and Ikorodu Division, Mrs Kofoworola Adegboye.
The statement further added that law, order and safety of lives and properties has remained a cornerstone of the Governor Ambode-led administration, adding that the constitution of the Board marked another step in the desire of Government to make Lagos safe and secured for its citizens.
During the 3rd Quarter 2016 Town Hall Meeting, held at the Indoor Sports Hall, Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere on October 11, Governor Ambode had announced plans to implement the provision of the Neighbourhood Safety Corps Law 2016 of Lagos State recently passed by the Lagos State House of Assembly.
The Governor also promised to recruit 5,000 Corps members into the Neighbourhood Safety Corps, adding that they would be present in all Local Governments and Local Council Development Areas of the State, with new recruits expected to earn at least N25, 000 monthly with other allowances.
The chairman, DIG Ajao, is a former Commissioner of Police in Lagos and Ogun as well as DIG Criminal Investigation.

			
			Post Views: 
			60