President of Ford Motor Company, Middle East and Africa Region, Jacques Brent; Corporate Communications Director, Ford Motor Company of Southern Africa, Rella Bernardes; General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, and Manager, Marketing Sales & Services, Ford Sub-Sahara Africa, Mr. Rob Johnston; during the launch of the All New Ford Edge 2016 at Ford Showroom in Lagos…on Thursday
        Share this on WhatsApp

Promises class-leading driving dynamics




By Odunewu Segun
The all-new Ford Edge upscale sport utility vehicle (SUV) which delivers premium levels of comfort, sophisticated driver assistance features and class-leading driving dynamics has been unveiled for the Nigerian market.
The all-new Ford Edge sets new standards in its class for interior space; features high quality materials throughout the finely crafted interior; and offers comfort and convenience features including heated and cooled front seats and a panoramic roof on the high-spec models.
All-new Edge also is offered with Ford’s innovative Front Wide-View Camera, which can help drivers see around corners using a 1-megapixel camera in the front grille to display a wide-angle view – both left and right – on the vehicle’s 8-inch colour touchscreen. At a blind junction or exiting a driveway, the camera enables drivers to easily spot approaching vehicles, pedestrians or cyclists. A high-pressure jet washer is also discretely contained within the grille, extending to clean the camera lens when the headlight washer is activated, helping ensure maximum visibility.
The Ford Edge which is being market in Nigeria by Coscharis Motors uses the latest powertrain technologies to deliver optimised fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions, making powerful SUV performance accessible to even more customers.
It is with the advanced 2.0-litre four-cylinder EcoBoost engine that uses a twin-scroll turbocharger to produce 245 horsepower and 275 lb.-ft. of torque. Innovative aerodynamic features include Front Aero Curtains on the 2.0 EcoBoost models that channel air through vertical slots in the front bumper and out across the outer edge of the front wheel, creating a wall of high speed air that reduces aerodynamic drag caused by the rotation of wheels.
Buyers also have the option of Ford’s proven 3.5-litre Ti-VCT V6 with 280hp and 250 lb.-ft peak outputs. All Edge derivatives are mated to a six-speed SelectShift automatic transmission, with the choice of front-wheel drive or Ford’s Intelligent All Wheel Drive system on the 2.0 EcoBoost and 3.5 V6 versions.
Topping the Ford Edge range is the sophisticated 2.7-litre EcoBoost, which is exclusive to the Edge Sport. It develops an impressive 315hp, linked to 350 lb.-ft. of torque, and is equipped as standard with AWD.
Intelligent All Wheel Drive can pre-emptively adjust torque distribution to avoid wheel spin, reducing the workload for drivers and delivering smoother journeys for passengers. By only delivering torque where and when it is needed, the system has minimal impact on fuel-efficiency, CO2 emissions and tyre wear compared with permanent four-wheel drive systems.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment