Share this on WhatsApp
By Lanre Adesanya
Hundreds of constituents in Mushin II  constituency are set to be technologically empowered, an attempt to make them self reliant, given the economic recession confronting the nation.
The laudable two pronged programme initiated by Hon. Olawale Olayiwola member of the Lagos House state House of Assembly, representing Mushin II was tagged ‘Computer Training/Agro Empowerment Scheme’.
The skill acquisition/ personal enhancement scheme was held in conjunction with Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) with Mr. Rasak Ogundeji from the Techno Economic/ Entrepreneur division on hand to sensitize participants.
A total of 200 hundred constituents were scheduled to go through, the two months intensive socio- economic status boosting training programme, targeted at churning out employers of labour.
According to Olawale, we believe our people should be self employed, this remain our major drive for initiating this programme collaborating with FIIRO here in Mushin.
” FIIRO have lots of technological know how that participants can harness, lots of products awash our markets now and even exported are borne out of the body’s manufacturing capabilities;the Ayoola poundo yam, and other yam flour brands, bottled palm wine and more  are some of FIIRO’s success stories.
“This is an attempt to afford the people another poverty alleviation scheme, which will make them self reliant, it is a scheme that will outlive me.
“We will pay for your training and also give computers free of charge to individuals who excel in the process.
” I can account for 1400 graduates of our computer training package since inception in 2002, so this won’t be an exception, as viable computer skills beyond the surface will be made available, the likes of web designing, Corel draw,photo editing and more”.
The lawmaker also noted that the skills acquired above all will help prepare the constituents to key into the N25bn Lagos state empowerment scheme, which will start doling out loan facilities to start-up entrepreneurs.
The Mushin Local Government Sole Administrator, Mr. Yinka Osho while speaking newsmen said that the scheme was a laudable one, especially with the involvement of FIIRO.
“I plan to take up the collaborative opportunity in FIIRO at a larger scale soon, for the benefit more people in this area”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment