Executive Director, Service Bank, Heritage Bank, Mr.  Niyi Adeseun; Director, Mr. Tony Madojemu; Director, Mr. Oladele Oyelola; Director, Mr. Adetola Adekoja, who represented the Chairman of Board, Mr. Akinsola Akinfemiwa OON and Executive Director, Lagos/South West & Corporate Banking, Mrs. Mary Akpobome, at the bank's first Investors Forum in Lagos.


        Share this on WhatsApp



Heritage Bank Plc, has said it is committed to sustainable growth with the aim of emerging as a systemic important bank in Nigeria despite the headwinds facing the macro-economic environment.
Chairman of the bank, Mr. Akinsola Akinfemiwa, stated this at the bank’s premier investors forum held in Lagos recently, remarking that “Our ambition to emerge as a systemic important bank remains the underlying essence of our next growth phase strategy.”
The chairman of the bank, who was represented by Mr. Adetola Atekoja, a director of the bank noted that “the foundational element of our strategy – People, Partnership and Process will be recalibrated to match the rapidly changing needs of our customers, especially, as we deploy a full steam retail banking franchise.”
Akinfemiwa said the bank is on a growth track and is not unmindful of the headwinds facing the domestic economy, adding that “We remain very optimistic that the Heritage Brand will continue to surf over the current economic tide through our collective efforts to remain an enduring institution.”
Looking into the future, he said the bank was confident that it would continue to grow by appealing to key client segments, especially in the retail space, an important and growing market and that they would also continue to focus on underpenetrated banking segments and building loyalty amongst the bank’s existing customer base.
He informed the forum that the business combination with Enterprise Bank Limited in September 2015 was a commendable success, adding that this was reflective of the commitment of the staff, support of their customers and the degree of investors’ confidence in the bank.
The chairman said over the last three years, the bank has committed its efforts and resources to the building of an enduring and resilient banking franchise in spite of the challenges in the macroeconomic space, adding that in the midst of the stormy realities presented by events within the political and economic environment, the bank has continued to pursue its strategic aspiration of not only being stable but stronger.
He remarked that as a service company in the business of banking, the bank was committed to deploying its resources towards the delivery of innovative banking solutions to its customers and creation of wealth to its shareholders.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment