Share this on WhatsApp







By OKOSUN DENNIS
A 35 -year- old man, Michael Atanda, who  has been threatening to expose nude pictures of four ladies on the social media if they fail to pay some money into his account has been arrested by the operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of Lagos State Police Command.
Atanda, a National Diploma holder in computer science from a computer school based in Ikeja, was arrested on Thursday by the surveillance Team of the Squad after about five days of baiting and monitoring.
It was learnt that the suspect, an ex–convict and father of three, had collected N121,000:00 from his four girlfriends with the threat but wanted the ladies to pay more or face the consequences of leaking their nude pictures on social media.
The suspect who bears Segun Bayo on facebook and a graduate of Obafemi Awolowo University Ile – Ife, said he went about adding several ladies on facebook. And, that after two weeks, he would start chatting with them.
“The profile picture on my facebook account is that of a guy based in London, and so as part of my introduction to ladies, I tell them that, I am a Construction Engineer as well as that my parents and I are living in Europe” the suspect said
He continued that ” After sometime, I would lure them into sexual conversations during which, I persuaded them to send their nude pictures to me. They would send and I would send mine to them too”.
“Before that, I would pretend that I was seeking a serious relationship with them, and that very soon, I would be coming to Abuja on a business trip, during which I would see them”, he stated.
The suspect continued that “I would again feign my seriousness by calling them with the aid of computer software that transforms my Nigerian line into an international line. Meanwhile, I would warn them that I was calling through a public phone booth.
“As soon as they have sent their nude pictures, I would come up with all manners of stories. And begin to extort and blackmail them. Through this means, I have collected over N121, 000:00 from my latest victims.
“I was jailed last year in a similar circumstance after I fraudulently collected N700, 000:00 from a lady I met through a dating site. I was eventually bailed but the case is still pending in the court” he confessed.
“I have collected only 10,000:00 from Funmilola, Motunrayo, N6,000, Joy, N5,000 and Lizzy, N100,000:00” .
A police source disclosed that apart from Lizzy, who reported the incident but declined to press charges, three other suspects, who were discovered during investigations, acknowledged on phone calls they have been paying the suspect so that he doesn’t leak their nude photographs online.
The source added that even though, investigators have reached out to more victims after checking the suspect’s facebook conversations with a number of ladies. All of them have refused to come forward, after confirming they were paying the suspect through his bank statement.
Confirming the development, the Police Public Relations Officer, Suprintendent Dolapo Badmos, said that the Police were  carrying out a thorough investigation on the case to aid prosecution.
The suspect has been transferred to SCID for further investigations.





Attachments area








Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment