Share this on WhatsApp



Major Hamzat Al-Mustapha (rtd), the former Chief Security Officer (CSO) to the late General Sani Abacha, is now a doctoral degree holder, courtesy of Esep-le Berger University in the Republic of Benin.
Al-Mustapha was conferred with Doctor of Humanities (Honorary Causa) during the institution’s convocation, penultimate Saturday.
He was honoured together with five notable Nigerians, including the immediate past governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji Mukhtar Ramalan Yero, former Kaduna governor, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, popular musician, Segun Akinlolu (Beautiful Nubia), chairman Bauchi State chapter of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Muhammed Gital, and Alhaji Jubril Muhammed.
About 700 graduands were churned out by the university at the ceremony held at Palais De Congress in Cotonou. No fewer than 2,000 guests, including top business leaders across Africa, attended the event. Some of the graduands were from West African countries.
For Al-Mustapha, it was an honour away from home.
President and founder of the university, Prof Germain Ganlonon, who decorated Al-Mustapha with academic gown, said the institution selected Al-Mustapha for the honour because of his activities towards emancipating the downtrodden.
Al-Mustapha said the honour was a challenge for him to step up his humanitarian activities, saying: “Whatever anybody does, people are watching and they will reward individuals according to the service they render to lift humanity.”
He assured the university management of his commitment to building a working relationship between the school and the Nigerian Institute of Peace and Social Rehabilitation, which he founded.
He advised the school authorities to make trust the bedrock of all their activities.
He said: “The rail of life is called trust. This is what takes you to your destiny. In the absence of trust, nothing will work. No institution can stand. No leader can work successfully. Trust is actually the link in every affairs of human in life.
“Trust brings about strong leadership, as well as platform for learning. I urged the university authorities to dwell more on researches centred on trust and how it can be used as a tool to enhance bilateral trade and peaceful relationship between Republic of Benin and Nigeria.”
Al-Mustapha, whose foundation has been giving scholarship to indigent students and sponsoring many developmental projects in the Northeast, said aside from the past histories, both Anglophone and francophone countries in Africa are the same. He said the differences in languages and past histories are imaginary demarcations slowing Africa’s development.
Al-Mustapha urged the graduating students to work for the progress of Africa.
He added: “You must contribute your quota to the development of your professions and Africa. Africa needs development, but its salvation would be anchored by the youths. Use your knowledge to create jobs and business opportunities. As graduates, you should adjust and be on your feet, so that you can be part of the generation changing the world.”
The Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Edouard Aho, said the honorees had history of commitment and service to humanity. The ideal, he said, is the bedrock of the institution.
He said: “Our awardees are people with excellent track record in their various disciplines and areas. The school authorities have found them worthy of these honours and we are glad to see them attending the occasion.”
The guest lecturer, Comrade Shola Akinbinu, said Africa countries needed to improve their education standard in order to overcome the challenges posed by advancement pf technology. Akinbinu, a journalist and public affairs analyst, noted also that there was need to redesign the curriculum for learning. Such method, he said, should be tailored towards counselling, coaching and mentoring the students.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment