Share this on WhatsApp



Associates of All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, have raised the alarm over plans by spin doctors to fabricate lies to portray him in bad light before the Presidency and top party leaders.
They took exception to fabricated media reports that the former Lagos State governor travelled abroad to avoid attending a reconciliation meeting on the Ondo APC crisis scheduled for last week.
According to them, Tinubu was unaware of any proposed meeting before he travelled outside the country to honour some outstanding family and business obligations.
One of his aides told our correspondent that the “malicious report” was concocted to embarrass Tinubu and make it appear that he was frustrating reconciliation in a party he teamed up with likeminded progressives to build.
Faulting the claim of reconciliation, he said: “Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was unaware of any reconciliation meeting. He did not get notice for any meeting. Where did the notice come from? What day or date? Where was the proposed venue? Who were the people invited? What time? Who signed the letter of invitation? Who made the contact? Who summoned the meeting?
“There was no meeting whatever. The National Chairman, Chief Oyegun, has not initiated or fixed a meeting between himself and Asiwaju Tinubu. If such a meeting was ever fixed, there was no invitation or information passed on to Asiwaju Tinubu.”
Also, a source close to the frontline politician disclosed that Tinubu had travelled out on October 4 from Abuja to Guinea Conakry.
“We knew that Asiwaju was going to London, Paris, Maryland, Chicago and other cities in the United States to honour outstanding family, political and business matters to which he had made earlier commitment. We know that in between these trips he is taking a few days of vacation.” he said.
According to the source, Tinubu is expected to visit Ghana next month as a guest of President John Mahama, who is seeking re-election in the country’s presidential election.
He stressed: “He (Tinubu) is concluding plans to arrive Ghana soon to support his friend, President John Mahama, in his bid for a second term during the upcoming December elections.
“It should be remembered that Asiwaju Tinubu relocated to accra for three weeks to assist President Mahama in winning the election to become president after the death of former President Attah Mills.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment