From OSEMWENGIE BEN OGBEMUDIA, Benin City 
Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has pledged to provide good leadership that would ensure improved infrastructure development, industrial growth and job creation in the state.

He made the pledge in his address immediately after his inauguration as governor of the state in Benin City on Saturday.

Obaseki, who was sworn-in along with the Deputy Governor, Mr. Philip Shaibu, said his administration would be committed to improved welfare of the citizens.

A member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), he defeated his opponent of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Osagie Ize-Iyamu, in the September 28 governorship election which controversy is being challenged in court.

The governor promised to complete all ongoing projects in the state and called for the support of the people to enable his administration succeed.

He said that he will utilise the agricultural potential of the state to improve on the living standard of the people, and promised to build on the legacies of his predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole.

“I am humbled and proud of succeeding a governor, who in the last eight years provided dedicated, fearless, inspired leadership that has transformed our state in ways people considered impossible. Taking the reign of office from my leader and mentor, Adams Oshiomhole, is an honour that I will always treasure. I will always respect and hold dear to my heart, his love, confidence, counselling and inspiration,” Obaseki stated. 

 “I want to assure you that as we take over today from where you stopped, we have resolved to build on your legacy. We need to strengthen and expand the infrastructure that has been established so that we can have a foundation on which to build a new Edo of our passionate dream. We will need to build and sustain a robust human intellectual, philosophical and even metaphysical infrastructure, because without them, it is virtually impossible to attain significant progress,’’ he said.

Obaseki reaffirmed that his mission is to achieve prosperity for Edo people by progressing 
the work previous administrations.

			
			Post Views: 
			134