The Pana crooner, Augustine Miles Kelechi popularly known by his stage name Tekno Miles or Tekno, is sure on his way to pick up the most coveted Next Rated artist award (Headies). The Nigerian singer-songwriter, producer, performer and dancer hails from Ebonyi state. In this conversation, EDIALE KINGSLEY looks into his early years and plans for the future.
The early years
I was born in Bauchi, then I stayed in Nassarawa, Kaduna and Abuja. My dad was in the army and it was one of the things that helped me when I was growing up, because I knew I couldn’t mess up. But he made me go into music, he used to play the guitar and he made me take piano lessons. So everytime I played something new, he’d buy me a gift, so I didn’t just jump into music, growing up for me was centered around music, as a child, my toys were the piano and guitar.
The Lucky Break
About 2 years ago in Abuja, I performed the remix of Ice Prince’s Oleku, ‘Onye Ne Kwu’ and it was very well received, I got a standing ovation. When I got off the stage, Julius Agwu called me and said he didn’t know this kind of talent existed in Abuja. He really encouraged me. Then at that same event, Iyanya and Ubi were there and we became friends. Eventually they asked me to move with them and the rest is history.
Switching Lanes
I found the move from Lagos to Abuja annoying because Abuja is peaceful, asides the issue of Boko Haram bombings, it’s very peaceful. I can set out to do everything in one day and I’ll still have time left over. But in Lagos, you can only really accomplish one thing in a day and you might not even get it done. So having grown up in Abuja and having to leave family and friends behind hasn’t been easy but it’s for the growth of my music.
Story Behind ‘Dance’
‘Dance’ came from me hearing a beat I like. That’s how I sing, I don’t sit down and decide what to write, sometimes I can hear someone’s beat playing and I’m inspired to write. So the whole song was actually the intro of the beat because I didn’t really like the other part of the beat. So I told E-kelly and we took it out, that’s why it’s the same thing playing till the end. I didn’t want something complicated because Nigerians don’t really like complicated things so I kept toying with it till I had something playful and nice. When I put it out I got insulted, people said I had better songs to put out but I said don’t worry, and 2 months after it’s grown big. It’s so big that I’m even shocked.
Fun Fact
I don’t drink or smoke. Every time I perform on stage, I’m crazy. I behave like someone who’s just won the lottery and people naturally assume that I may have smoked or drank something but that isn’t the case. I don’t smoke or drink, I’m just generally crazy. I’m also an avid gamer. I can play games from 12 midnight to 10am in the morning. The reason why I don’t run after girls or drink is because I’m comfortable with myself, I like my own company. I can stay in my room for a week and not care about the world. So long as I have my game, laptop, phones and things to munch on.
Relationship with Triple MG Crew
Its cool. We mostly talk about work, but we are family still. If Ubi sees something nice, he buys it for me and doesn’t even try to take it from my show money or anything. The phone I’m holding for instance, it was Ubi that bought it for me. I’m very playful in the house, I don’t get upset. If anyone does something that upsets me, I address it and it ends there. I don’t have the strength to be aggressive.
On his playlist is
Chris Brown and Usher. Chris Brown steps up his game every time he brings out something new. I don’t listen to Nigerian music on my own every time so I don’t begin to sound like anyone. I can dance to it in the club or sing along if it comes on but that’s it. I listen to Usher, Chris Brown, a little bit of Michael Jackson and Eminem because I think he’s the best rapper in the world.
Kind of woman
Any girl that isn’t tall. I don’t like tall girls, except they’re exceptionally beautiful but I like fair girls a lot. I like small, fair girls.
If You Had To Go On A Blind Date It Would Be With…
DJ Cuppy. She smiles a lot. I just feel she’s happy. If you ask me 600 times who I’ll pick in the industry, I’ll pick her. It doesn’t mean she’s the only one I like; it just means there’s something about her I respect. Everytime I see her she’s smiling, she’s just always excited. I don’t know anything about her except that she’s good at what she does and she puts herself out there and doesn’t hide under the umbrella of anyone. I really respect a woman that does that.
What type of music do you play?
Basically, I sing music. I won’t say one pattern or the other but in Nigeria you know how it is; you have to sing a song that people can jump up to. Whatever music it is, I sing music.
You’re saying you can do all kinds of music?
I can do whatever. I’m not going to rap, but I can sing whatever, yeah.
What stands you out as an artiste?
I think my biggest selling point is my stage craft. I also try my best and look good for the ladies and look good for the people and try and keep a lifestyle that the youth would want to live up to, me looking good and being on stage to do what I do best.
How did you find your way into music?
Basically, I’ve been playing the piano since I was eight. My dad enrolled me for piano classes, so I didn’t just start singing, I learnt music from childhood. I actually play the basic instruments like the piano, the guitar and drums. Music is a way of life, I’ve been in music and I will always be in it.
Under what management were you before signing for Triple MG?
I was with K.Money. K.Money is an amazing person, a kind of person that if any artiste finds his way into his management, the person should just thank God. He’s a person that can go to any length for you. Now I’m in Triple MG and it’s amazing.
Did you have any other offers before you joined Triple MG?
I had some offers. I had from Pukano Music, from Jim Iyke, from a lot of people. There was also this guy that owns Tetrazzini or so, called Prince. There were offers from several quarters but whatever was meant to happen would happen for the best and I believe it’s God who guides my footstep because whatever you do, you acknowledge God, all the way. God has been there leading me through the right path. Wherever I find myself right now, it’s not by my talent or by whatever I think I can do but I think somehow, God shows the way and I take the right path.
Why did you choose Triple MG?
I won’t say there’s a reason I joined but I must state that Triple MG is a family, a home, a place where you’re in and no one feels like he’s a star. I’m with Iyanya, Ubi, Basci and Emma Nyra and it’s an amazing thing because we can all relate quite easily. I’ve actually known Iyanya for a while, we weren’t that close but you know, if in five years from now, you asked me if I would join Triple MG, I’ll say yes. If you asked me two years back, I’d say yes. So I’m here because it’s meant to happen.
When exactly did you sign for Triple MG?
It was a gradual process, but it just finally occurred. It is still going to be made official.
So how’s the experience been in the house since joining?
The experience is amazing, recording with Iyanya in the studio, going out for shows, being in the house, watching football, playing soccer and winning everybody in the house as a bad man wey I be, I’m happy I’m here.
What do you hope to achieve with your new family?
I’m going to go round the world with Triple MG, we’ll play good music, and make a lot of money. A lot of people say they do music for the love and not the money but on my part, I’m doing music for the love but I’m going to make a lot of money because if there’s no money involved, I don’t think there’s any use putting your time, energy and talent in it. You won’t tell me you are doing it for the love then you’ll be doing free shows. With Triple MG, we are going to make history.
Have you fully moved to Lagos now or you’re still shuttling Abuja and Lagos?
I’m in Lagos fully, I am a Lasgidi boy now. I was previously based in Abuja and I conquered the city. I’m the biggest artiste out there. If you go there and say Tekno, they’ll say yeah, that’s the man and I’m thankful to God for that. It’s ABJ to Lasgidi and from Lasgidi it’s going to be around the world and I’m keeping it real.

			
			Post Views: 
			120