Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
Lagos is set host the Nigeria edition of Africa’s flagship innovation conference, The Emergent Continent, organized by TheNerve Africa, a global growth information company focused on continental Africa on November 16th 2016.
Organizers of the conference said the theme, “Make Innovation Happen”, was carefully chosen to draw the attention of the global media to undocumented innovative projects currently happening on the African continent.
The Nerve Africa is partnering with the Lagos Business School as its knowledge partners to embark on an editorial journey that will see the media company document and provide coverage of enterprise innovation within Africa. This process will kick off officially with The Emergent Continent Conference in November 2016.
Senior Executives, investors, venture capitalists and Innovators from the World’s leading tech, media and finance organizations will be participating and showcasing at the conference. They include GE, SAP, Microsoft, Boston Consulting Group, Google Nigeria, Olam, African Development Bank (AfDB), International Finance Corporation (IFC), Federal Ministry of Agriculture, AXA Mansard, to name a few.
Speakers confirmed for the event include Dr Ousmane Dore, Country Director AfDB; Kola Masha, CEO of Doreo Partners; Tanya Spencer, MD Digital Solutions, Sub-Saharan Africa, GE; Lexi Novitske, Principal Investment Officer, Singularity Investments; Wale Ayeni, International Finance Corporation; Wiebe Boer, Boston Consulting Group; Oloruntoye Aderinola, Solutions manger, business analytics at SAP.
Also confirmed to speak are Ada Osakwe, CEO Agrolay Ventures; Chris Shultz, Launchpad USA; Anne Driscoll, Christopher Okeke, and others.
The conference will enjoy premium media coverage from Bloomberg, Quartz and other reputable media organizations from around the continent.
This conference is open to anyone interested in the future of the African continent and how we can all strategically position ourselves for the century of innovation, or what renowned Economist and Founder of the World Economic Forum, Prof Klaus Schwab, has described as the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
The Nerve Africa is an Africa focused growth information and digital news service that provides multi-perspective, broad, smart, engaging and mobile-friendly business content for the affluent and C-Suite executives, investors, decision makers, high net-worth individuals, business owners and the global community with interest in Africa.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment