Trump has better deal for Nigeria than Clinton

Ben Murray-Bruce, senator representing Bayelsa East Senatorial District, says Donald Trump, president-elect of the US, has many things in common with former President Olusegun Obasanjo.
Bruce said the duo could be “brash and outspoken”, but they always seem to come out on top.
The lawmaker said a striking similarity between both men is that they have an “insatiable taste” for beautiful women.
“They both undeniably have an insatiable taste for women and beautiful ones at that,” Bruce said in a statement posted on Facebook.
“Both men have succeeded in business and, even though they were political outsiders, they extended their business success to politics.
“Trump and former President Obasanjo both look not very intelligent, but their looks betray their vast knowledge and deep wisdom. You meet them and size them up by their looks and end up underestimating them.
“But when they reach into their reptilian brain and come out with strategies it becomes too late to do what you should have done.”
Bruce said Nigeria stands to benefit more from Trump than Hillary Clinton, his rival.
He said the incoming US president would not ban Nigerians from entering his country, because US needs Nigeria.
“And even though there is a lot of anxiety in the Black world and especially Nigeria, I believe that a Trump presidency would be better for Africa and Nigeria than a Hillary administration,” he said.
“We are spending way too much of our resources on fighting terrorists. We need a big strong hand to help us fight them. A hand that will not be afraid to sell us weapons and will not make us grovel before it is willing to help us destroy our enemies who want to destroy us.
“But secondly and very importantly, Nigeria is an oil producing nation and though I believe that it is what is between the ears of our people that will make this nation great, we still need foreign exchange and Hillary’s plans for alternative energy was not going to see the price of oil go up anytime soon.
“But Trump won in Texas because the oil industry knows that they have a friend in him, and any friend of Texas big oil is a friend of Nigeria. And forget about all that talk about immigration reform. Trump will not stop Nigerians from entering the US. The US needs Nigerians more than Nigerians need the US.”

			
			Post Views: 
			174