Share this on WhatsApp



The federal government has set up a 16-member technical committee to develop a roadmap and find lasting solution to the lingering conflict between farmers and herdsmen in parts of the country.
The Minister of Interior, Abdulrahman Dambazau, a retired lieutenant general, who inaugurated the committee on Monday in Abuja, urged the committee to tackle the problem headlong.
He said the committee would be expected to draw up a roadmap for an all-inclusive gathering of parties involved to address the crises.
“The Committee is expected to draw up a roadmap for an all-inclusive gathering of stakeholders to address the lingering conflicts between the Pastoralists and Sedentary Farmers,’’ he said.
Mr. Dambazau decried the escalating nature of the crises which had resulted to the wanton destruction of lives and property and threatening the socio-economic development of the nation.
“You would recall that the conflict has been escalating at every passing year with more violent proportion, different dimensions and increasing geographical spread.
“This has led to the wanton destruction of lives and property, distrust amongst the ethno-religious groups in the country and threat to the internal security and socio-economic development of the nation,’’ he said.
He gave the committee two weeks to fashion out a framework to resolving the crises which include identifying the problems underlying the conflict from regional and national perspectives.
The committee is also expected to identify regional/local laws that impact on the conflict and outline a tentative strategy to deal with the conflict.
Earlier, the Chairman of the Committee and Director General, Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution, Oshita Oshita, a professor, assured of the dedication of members to the task ahead.
Mr. Oshita said that the surest catalyst to boosting the federal government’s diversification effort was to find a lasting solution to the farmers/herdsmen crises to resuscitate the economy.
He emphasised the need for peace for any meaningful development to take place in the country and urged all stakeholders to cooperate with the committee in this regard.
The committee comprises security experts, members of the Academia, diplomats and Entrepreneurs.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment