By INYALI PETER, Calabar

The unending spate of insecurity in Calabar, Cross River State, has taken a new dimension as suspected Bakassi militants have allegedly killed one and kidnapped four expatriates of MacMahon, a contracting firm with the United Cement Company of Nigeria (UNICEM), an arm of Larfarge PLC.

The incident which took place on Wednesday at about 7.00am at Akansoko community in Calabar Municipality Council area of the state is coming barely one week after UNICEM host community accused the company of polluting their drinking water in the course of their activities without compensation.

An eye witness, who pleaded not to be mentioned as he was not authorized to speak on the issue, said that on getting to the area, the militants attacked the vehicle and started shooting sporadically but when the driver refused to stop, they shot the driver, then, kidnapped four foreigners who were in the vehicle. “This morning as we were going to work, when we got to the bridge along Jonathan bypass at Akansoko, to be precise, militants attacked the vehicle conveying MacMahon company staff, killed the driver and kidnapped four white men. Although one of the white men escaped, the body of the driver who was shot in an attempt to escape with the white men is still lying in the area,” he narrated.

ALSO SEE: OPEC to meet over production cut as Barkindo condemns Militants over attack

“Although the victims are not direct staff of UNICEM but MacMahon Company is one of the companies working in UNICEM which is like one big family. So, this development is very sad news for all of us in UNICEM,” he stated.

When contacted, the UNICEM communication officer, Viola Graham-Douglas, confirmed the incident even as she said that MacMahon was working with security to ensure the safe release of those kidnapped.

“One of our contractors, MacMahon, has informed us that a security incident has occurred on the road from Calabar involving some of their employees. MacMahon is working with the Security Agencies to resolve this situation”, the communication officer confirmed.

Commissioner of Police in Cross River State, Jimoh Ozi-Ibeh, confirmed that three expatriates and two Nigerians were kidnapped and that they were on their trail.

			
			Post Views: 
			92