Share this on WhatsApp



DIRECTOR-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General Suleman Kazaure, has expressed optimism that the states affected by insecurity in the north east of the country would begin to enjoy full return of normalcy.
He was addressing the 2016 Batch ‘A’ (Stream II) Corps members deployed to Yobe State and currently undergoing orientation course at the NYSC camp in Fanisau, Dutse, Jigawa State.
Kazaure commended the Federal Government and the nation’s Armed Forces for the huge successes recorded in the war on terror, noting that there is now relative peace in the region.
The Director-General assured Corps members that would serve in the affected states that the NYSC management would liaise with security agencies, state governments and other relevant stakeholders with a view to ensuring adequate protection for them.
He, however, reminded them that security was not an exclusive business of government and its agencies; adding that the Corps members and other citizens should also play roles towards ensuring their own safety.
ALSO SEE: NYSC plans zonal skills centres
“Security is a collective responsibility; I urge you to be conscious of your environment and to report any suspicious movement or activity to the appropriate authorities.
“Avoid unnecessary journeys, and ensure you study the NYSC Security Tips booklet given to you,” he said.
He also stated that NYSC Inspectors in the affected areas had been instructed to monitor situations on ground and make regular reports to Headquarters.
The Director-General used the occasion to reiterate the need for Corps members to avail themselves of opportunities for self-employment just as he urged them to join efforts at making Nigeria greater.
Earlier in his welcome address, the NYSC Yobe State Coordinator, Malam Abubakar Muhammad, said the camp programmes were progressing smoothly while Corps members and officials had demonstrated high sense of responsibility.
Mr. Muhammad expressed gratitude to the Jigawa State Government for allowing the use of the Orientation Camp in the State for the induction of Corps members deployed to Yobe state.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment