AS part of efforts to deliver simpler and smarter banking to its teeming customers, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc has unveiled a new branch with modern technology.
The new branch, situated at Muri Okunola Street, Victoria Island is expected to offer premium service to Elite Banking Customers. This service is unique to the branch and while customers can access all the bank’s products and services, they can also experience premium service via the Elite Banking lounge.
Speaking at the unveiling, the Chief Executive Officer, Union Bank, Mr. Emeka Emuwa, said the new branch is a reflection of the bank’s journey towards satisfying its customers.
“Many of you may know that next year, Union Bank will be a 100 years old. So what we are doing today is a reflection of the journey to modernise the bank and get ready for the future,” Emuwa said.
“This location is one of the first that reflects our refreshed identity. You would see that the Stallion is different from what it used to be. Again, it’s a reflection of the bank and I know we’re coming from somewhere and we’re going somewhere. You have seen in the media in the last few months how we have worked on our brand identity and we know that you will continue to be with us on the journey we’ve embarked on.
ALSO SEE: Union Bank targets improved deposit base, ROI
“In addition to refreshing and remodelling our network, what we have done is introduce simpler and smarter products. We have also unveiled our online and mobile banking platforms” Emuwa explained.
Also reacting, one of the customers, Alhaji Idris, CEO of Wiseduo Investment Limited commended the management of the bank for all the efforts they have put in transforming the bank. ” have also told the management here that you have a nice edifice. Because if you fail to develop good branches, the people in head office will bear the brunt and they have to pass it back to you. I wish you all the best and I’m proud once again to be associated with Union Bank.”
Also, the founder and CEO, Lady Mechanic Initiative, Mrs Sandra Aguebor said: “Union Bank have really supported me in my business even at my early stage. They gave me the job of repairing their trucks. We have four accounts with them and the bank has been very supportive to the Women Mechanic Initiative which has trained 1000 women. So I’m happy to be with them and I will continue to be with them.”

			
			Post Views: 
			307