Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Most Reverend Matthew Hassan Kukah has urged Catholics in the country to engage themselves in evangelism, saying that the time has come for them to win converts into the catholic faith as the whole world is sinking deeper into sin.
Bishop Kukah stated this recently at the Catholic Church of the Nativity, Festac Town, Lagos during the 2016 Father’s Day Celebration special mass service where he was the guest of honour.
The charismatic Bishop, who prayed for the over 40 men of the parish that were nominated for different categories awards by the Catholic Men Organisation of Nigeria the parish, said the coming of modernity has challenged the basic tenets of Christianity.
“Life has become a transaction. Churches have become theaters and drama houses where the saving of souls for the kingdom of God has been relegated to the background and Jesus Christ conscripted to fight our battles”
Reacting to the first reading from the books of 1Kings 19: 16b 19-21, Bishop Kukah said there is the need to surrender everything to God in other to live a meaningful life in Christ.
He said Catholics must recognise their two thousand years of victorious history and help spread the good news at this point in time to address the dwindling faith in the missionary work. “This is the time when authentic witnesses to Christ are needed.  May all those who defend the faith with vigorous outlook, passionately partake in the evangelical work.”
ALSO SEE: TB at 53: celebrating a spiritual icon
Addressing recipients of the Catholic Men Organisation awards, Bishop Kukah reminded the men that evangelical mission is enormous but added that God will see them through it all.
He advised them to be ready to leave everything behind and follow Jesus Christ, adding that Christ will help them succeed in the tortuous journey they have embarked on.
Also speaking at the event, the Parish Priest of the Church, Rev. Fr. Simeon Iwu said the call to fatherhood is a call from God to be a co-creator with Him, and a journey of discovery filled with opportunities to become bearers of God’s goodness.
“On this occasion of father’s Day, we appreciate for their untiring efforts in the formation of their families by setting good examples for their children to emulate and being loving husbands to their wives.”
Chairman of the Parish’s Catholic Men Organisation of Nigeria, Dr. Jude Mbama said the father’s day feast is an occasion to celebrate fathers, pray for all fathers, wish them well and reflect on their roles as fathers in the Church, Family and State, and most especially as parents and pillars of the Church.
“It has often been said that the family is the basic unit and domestic church of the larger society. We as fathers, must align our roles as enshrined in the CMO’s constitution and by Laws by promoting evangelism, supporting the Church and Clergy”
 
 
.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment