Share this on WhatsApp
…doubles network between Belgium and two U.S. hubs daily
By Isaac Tersoo Agber
Delta Air Lines is set to resume its Brussels-Atlanta service from March 2017, this will double the airline’s network between Belgium and the USA as it currently operates a daily year-round service between Brussels and New York-JFK.
The airline announced that flight service to the terror-stricken Brussels, which will begin on March 26, 2017, will be the only nonstop flight between the Belgian capital and Atlanta and will operate daily throughout the summer. From Delta’s two U.S. hubs – Atlanta and New York-JFK – customers will have a combined choice of more than 200 same-day onward connections throughout the United States, including the popular cities of Los Angeles, Orlando and San Francisco. All flights from Belgium are operated in conjunction with joint venture partners Air France, KLM and Alitalia.
“As Brussels Airport transitions all airlines back to the main check-in area, we are pleased to confirm we will reinstate our Atlanta service for next summer,” said Dwight James, Delta’s Senior Vice President, trans-Atlantic.
He added: “It has been a difficult few months for the local community but we remain committed to Belgium and showing our support by operating two daily flights, which will benefit both the travelling public and also the local economy.”
ALSO SEE: Delta, Virgin strengthen network between U.S. and U.K
The schedule for the service between Brussels and Atlanta is:
Flight                  Departs                                    Arrives
DL81                  Brussels at 11:00 a.m               Atlanta at 2:45 p.m.
.DL80                 Atlanta at 5:40 p.m.                  Brussels at 8:20 a.m. (+1 day)
The airline informed that the route will be operated using a 225-seat Boeing 767-300 aircraft, adding that all flights from Brussels are equipped with Wi-Fi, allowing customers to stay connected at 30,000 feet, in addition to complimentary on-demand in-flight entertainment in all cabins. Movies and TV shows can also be downloaded to tablet and laptop devices.
Customers flying in Delta Comfort+ will benefit from up to four additional inches of legroom and 50 percent more recline than Main Cabin seats, as well as priority boarding. Furthermore, Delta’s flights from Brussels feature fully flat-bed seats in the Delta One cabin, with Westin Heavenly Inflight Bedding from Westin Hotels & Resorts and TUMI amenity kits featuring products by MALIN + GOETZ. Customers enjoy a range of regional dining options in the Delta One cabin produced using seasonal ingredients and paired with wines selected exclusively for Delta by Master Sommelier, Andrea Robinson.
Tickets for Delta’s flights are available through Delta Air Lines on www.delta.com or via travel agents.
Delta has a proven record of integrity in air service. The airline serves nearly 180 million customers each year. Little wonder it has already gained recognition as one of Fortune’s top 50 Most Admired Companies in 2016, in addition to being named the most admired airline for the fifth time in six years.
 
Share this on WhatsApp