THE Federal Government said it has established among other things creation opportunity for 500,000 teaching jobs for graduate as well as to train over 100,000 apprentices and artisans in vocational skills development.
Speaking at the just concluded 2016 International Labour Organisation summit, Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Chris Ngige, urged interested graduates for positions in the direct teacher jobs scheme through an internet portal named npower.gov.ng.
“The first roll-out of its N500bn social investment programmes, the 500,000 Teacher Corps scheme, nicknamed N-Power Teach on the portal, is one of the three direct job creation and training schemes Nigerians can start applying for from Sunday, June 12.”
“Others are N-Power Knowledge which will train 25,000 Nigerians in the area of technology, and N-Power Build, which train another 75,000 in the areas of building services, construction, utilities, hospitality and catering, automotive vocations, aluminum and gas services.”
In addition, the Minister noted that as economic upturn is not peculiar to Nigeria alone, situation whereby the management of banks and telecommunication companies are only interested in profits-making and not lacking interest in welfare of workers is wrong.
ALSO SEE: Ecobank Nigeria sacks 1040 workers
“It is pertinent to note that in the race for development, the developing countries have peculiar historical and developmental challenges. Nigeria is not insulated from these challenges which are daily manifesting in the socio-economic crises of today. The current challenges in the country are not unconnected with the historical neglect of past administrations to address the consequences of a mono-product economy that have so far depended on revenue from crude oil.”
It would be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari, in his May 29th Democracy Day broadcast to the nation, formally launched the unprecedented social investment programmes already provided for under the 2016 Appropriation by the administration.
The N-Power Teacher Corps initiative which will engage and train 500,000 young unemployed graduates, is a paid volunteer programme of a 2-year duration. Unemployed Nigerians selected and trained will play teaching, instructional, and advisory roles in primary, and secondary schools, agricultural extension systems across the country, public health and community education-covering civic and adult education.

			
			PV: 
			0