Share this on WhatsApp



…gets $150million Credit Line from AfDB
THE United Bank of Africa is giving a 3-day all expenses paid trip to Kenya to ten lucky winners that emerged at its Remittance Awoof promo recently.
The draw, which was witnessed by officials of the Consumer Protection Council, took place at the bank’s head office in Lagos. The 10 winners include five customers who received foreign remittance via Western Union and five others who received same via MoneyGram.
UBA said the promo was part of the bank’s efforts to reward loyalty and give back to the society.
The Group Head, Consumer and Digital Banking, UBA, Anant Rao, appreciated customers for their loyalty and trust in the bank, adding that the Awoof Promo was carried out to reward customers who have patronised the bank in one way or the other.
He said, “This is our way of rewarding people who bank with us, not necessarily our customers. It is part of our bank’s transformation process to put the customers’ first and to connect with them.
“It is also a way of acknowledging our customers and we are doing this to create a rewarding experience for the UBA customer.”
Also, 40 other customers were rewarded with various gifts items in the second batch of the UBA Remittance Awoof Promo.
ALSO SEE: UBA, Access Bank top in forex trading
Meanwhile, it has secured a $150million Line of Credit, LOC approved by the board of directors of the African Development Bank Group, AfDB through its private sector window.
The LOC will help finance infrastructure and SME projects, including women-owned enterprises in Nigeria.
It will support infrastructure development, particularly the power sector, which is a major constraint for Nigeria’s economic diversification and inclusive growth.
UBA has for long led financial institution supporting various infrastructure projects, particularly power, telecom, transport and social infrastructure such as hospital and education facilities.
This has given the bank a lot of recognition and awards, including the Social Infrastructure Deal of the Year Award in 2015.
In its Nigerian operations, UBA supports over 3,700 Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) covering all the 36 states of the federation, through over 450 business offices and touch points.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment