Share this on WhatsApp



National Automotive Development and Design Council has directed that all vehicle manufacturing plants in the country to install speed-limiting device in their vehicles.
National Daily gathered that the directive is part of the council’s efforts to reduce the rate of speed-related accidents in the country.
The Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Mr. Boboye Oyeyemi, confirmed this in Lagos at a sensitisation programme on the implementation of the speed limiting device.
Represented by the Deputy Corps Marshal, Motor Vehicle Administration, Theophilus Charles, Oyeyemi said the FRSC was alarmed by the continuous incidence of speed induced crashes.
ALSO SEE: FRSC to arrest, fine motorists for over-speeding
He said the basic concern of the FRSC in introducing the speed limiting device in vehicles was the safety of lives and property of the people on the road.
He said, “The FRSC neither markets the device nor promotes any vendor, but is interested only in the safety of the people. Accordingly, the corps will work with other stakeholders to ensure that the standards of the device are adhered to by all the motorists and vendors.”
A statement by the corps quoted Oyeyemi as saying that as a country depending heavily on road transportation for over 90 per cent of movement, Nigeria could not afford the current threats to its economic development from speed-related crashes.
Meanwhile, the Lagos State Government has said the enforcement of the speed limiting device will help to reduce the rate of speed-related crashes on the nation’s highways.
The Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, stated this at the stakeholders’ forum on speed limiting device, which was organised by the FRSC.
The governor, who spoke through his Special Adviser on Transport, Anofiu Elegushi, stressed that the effective implementation of the speed limiting device would serve as a control mechanism against speed violation and resultant road crashes.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment