Share this on WhatsApp



By Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos
The Jos Electricity Distribution Company PLC (JED), has blamed the current power blackout in its state of Jurisdiction, on the ongoing vandalisation of gas pipeline by the Niger Delta Avengers.
JED stated this Thursday in Jos during a Customer Consultative Forum organised to enlighten customers about the services of the company.
Speaking through its Public Relation Officer, HajiyaLubabatuRabiu, she decried that the problem associated with the blackout was as a result of vandalisation of gas pipeline, urging its customers to bear with JED as the Federal Government is doing everything within its province to bring the situation under control.
Rabiu, explained that the quantity of energy received from the transmission company was what JED would share accordingly to its esteemed customers across the franchise states, adding that the problem of blackout is not from JED.
ALSO SEE: Crude theft, vandalization: Over N12bn was lost in one month — NNPC
However she pointed out that consumer apathy to bill payment if not improved will affect electricity supply when gas pipelines are restored, appealing to consumers to promptly pay bills.
Sighting illegal connection as one of the major challenges faced by JED, she warned all customers to avoid energy theft as doing so would amount to prosecution.
Her words: “JED is originally organising this forum to hear customer’s complaints and their suggestion with regard to our services which would help us to come out with strategic solutions.
“It has also come to our notice that some people have been illegally connecting our energy. It is on this note that JED is warning all those engaging in energy theft to desist from doing so. Whoever is cut doing so would be prosecuted”.
Plateau, Bauchi, Gombe and Benue, in the past few weeks has been interacting with JED, on customer consultative forum platform, with the aim to finding strategic solutions in resolving energy issues.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment