Share this on WhatsApp



By KINGSLEY CHUKWUKA, Jos
GOVERNOR Simon Lalong of Plateau State, has said he is committed to completing all abandoned projects that has direct impact to the people.
Lalong stated this recently at Pankshin Local Government Area of Plateau State where he commissioned Electricity Water project for the people of Pankshin.
The water project was abandoned during the Second Republic by the late Solomon Lar regime but has received attention by the Lalong led APC government.
The Management Committee Chairman of Pankshin LGA, Hon. Stephen Abednego Jings, said that the water project would have cost 26million naira, but with direct Labour it was achieved with 12.6million.
Speaking at the commissioning, Lalong said that part of his promise to the people of Plateau, was not to leave abandoned projects, but to continue with them with the aim of completing them especially does that have to do with the grassroots.
ALSO SEE: Bello to probe past govts over contract awards
The visit to Pankshin which severed the dual purpose of project commissioning and thank you visit also took the governor to Mangu and Bokos LGAs of Plateau, where he also commissioned 5killometer road network and inspection of state of the art Library at the Plateau State University Bokos.
The Vice Chancellor of the University, Professor Dokan Sheni, posited that the Library will gulp a total sum of 165 million naira to be completed, saying that if the library is completed, it will attract full accreditation of the University.
However, Lalong commended the Management Committee Chairmen of the various LGAs visited, for living up to the manifesto of the All progress Congress (APC) and the President Mohammedu Buhari’s desire to ensuring that ongoing projects initiated by the previous administration are completed before new ones are embarked upon.
Consequently, the governor encouraged the people of Plateau to live peacefully and to cooperate with the government to enable it actualize its laudable manifestos for people.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment