Share this on WhatsApp
A few days after being honoured with the 2016 “Africa Telecom Regulator of the Year Award” at the Africa Information Technology and Telecom Awards, in Accra Ghana, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), at the weekend in Brussels received the European Award for Best Practices in the Gold Category.
The prestigious award was presented to the regulator of the largest telecom market in Africa at the colourful event before representatives of 63 countries from Europe, Asia, Americas, Australia and Africa, for best practices approach to management and regulation that impacts on people’s quality of life.
The Director of Public Affairs at the commission, Mr. Tony Ojobo, who received the award on behalf of the Executive Vice Chairman of the NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, said the award is a recognition of the hard work and professionalism of the staff of the Commission.
After receiving the award, a visibly elated Ojobo said it was a great honour to be representing the EVC and the entire Commission on a world stage like this. I congratulate our highly esteemed EVC and the entire staff of the Commission.”
Other award recipients on the night included United Airlines, Cathay Pacific, Air Maroc, University of Mining and Technology, Ghana, among others.
The European Award for Best Practices 2016 Convention held on Saturday, June 4, 2016, in Brussels, Belgium, during which selected organizations, public administrations and companies from Europe, Asia, the Americas, Africa and Australia received the European Awards for Best Practices 2016 in recognition of their outstanding commitment and results in quality management strategies.
Renowned business leaders from different countries, academic experts, quality professionals, civil servants and diplomats participated in the Convention.
The organisers had said in a statement that bringing together the best professionals, organizations, public administrations and companies in the field of Quality for this memorable event, the European Society for Quality Research (ESQR), through its recognition program, is committed to continue to recognize the best practices and spread the Quality Culture by engaging business leaders to have more active role in it.
Both the Convention and the awards presentation ceremony took place at the hotel Le Plaza in Brussels. At the morning session of the Convention, the participants’ speeches and presentations took place.
The participating companies, public administrations and organizations had the opportunity to present and share their achievements, exchange professional experiences, propose initiatives and network with their potential partners from the whole world.
ALSO SEE: NCC wins Africa Telecom Regulator, canvasses for poverty eradication using telecom
The evening session was dedicated to the very colourful Gala Dinner and the Awards Presentation Ceremony which was attended by representatives from over 63 countries from all the continents of the world.
The European Society for Quality Research (ESQR), based in Lausanne (Switzerland), handles strategic questions in quality management and promotes Quality Culture and continuous improvement in Quality through the annual Conventions, which serve as a global forum to perfect quality management techniques and provides an excellent networking opportunity for all participants. The awarded companies, public administrations and organizations, from a wide range of private and public sectors, which strive for excellence and have proven their capabilities through their accomplishments, will renew their commitment to excellence and get new ideas on quality management.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment