Share this on WhatsApp



By OKOSUN DENNIS
The Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone 2 Command, Onikan, AIG Abdulmajid Ali has sworn to make life intolerable for cult members and other criminal elements in his areas of jurisdiction, warning that his command has zero tolerance for cultism.
He spoke on Monday in Lagos while formally assuming duty as the new AIG.  He was appointed a couple of weeks ago to relieve AIG Bala Hassan who has been retired.
AIG Abdulmajid said, “Kidnappers, cult members have been killing people and we would not treat them with kids’ gloves. That will never happen again. We would face them force with force and will never spare them. What is happening in Ikorodu, Arepo and Igando will be a thing of the past.
“The operation is on and we are doing joint operation with the military and some of them have been smoked out of their hiding places and a lot of them have been arrested and the perpetrators would be made known very soon,” he explained.
ALSO SEE: Robbers kill Police Inspector, Civilian in bank operation
He debunked the claim that those perpetrating the acts are militants. “They are bunch of hoodlums, miscreants. Those are the vandals that specialise in vandalising our pipelines. Now that the oil is no longer coming, they have now resorted to kidnapping, robbery and other criminal acts. They are not militants. Some claimed to be militants just to be able to make it or be heard.

On while some arrested cult members and paraded by the police before newsmen found themselves back committing the same crime they were initially arrested, AIG Abdulmajid, who was the immediate past Commissioner of Police of Ogun state, blamed the administration of criminal justice system.

“The police and the judiciary have been trying to see how to address that problem. We are working to have a capital punishment for such crime particularly kidnapping and cultism just we have with robbery. We would continue to raid and arrest them and charge them to cult. They are not just cult members but they are murderers and criminals.
The AIG frowned at some recalcitrant police personnel that dress shabbily saying it would no longer business as usual. While explaining that the dress code would be followed to the letter, the command would strive hard to put an end to improper, dirtiness within its jurisdiction. “I will personally take it as a responsibility to correct these abnormalities and put up corrective measures without delay,” Abdulmajid.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment