Share this on WhatsApp



By ODIMMEGWA JOHNPETER, Abuja
THE acting Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim K. Idris has paid a courtesy visit on the Comptroller-General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (rtd) to seek inter-agencies cooperation and collaboration to fast-track sustainable working relationships between the Nigeria Police Force and the Nigerian Customs Service in ensuring adequate security in the country.
During the visit at the Customs Headquarters in Abuja, the IGP underscored the fact that Police partnership with other security agencies always made the tasks of crime control and management much easier in the country.
The IGP used the opportunity of the visit to inform the Comptroller-General of the establishment of Joint Control Centre (JCC) at the Police Headquarters, Abuja which, according to him, will serve as a platform for other sister security agencies to engender cooperation in operational areas.
ALSO SEE: Anxiety grips wealthy Nigerians over withdrawal of mobile police excorts
The IGP thanked the Comptroller-General of Customs for the warm reception accorded him and his entourage.
The Comptroller-General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (rtd) while responding, congratulated the IGP on his appointment, saying from his track records, he had no doubt that Nigeria had a very competent IGP. Ali expressed gratitude to the Nigeria Police Force for the partnership and assistance the Force had given to the Nigerian Customs at the border posts and other areas in discharge of their official duties.
He pleaded that the IGP should sustain and strengthen this partnership.
The Comptroller-General maintained that looking at the present state of security on terrorism, there was every need to collaborate and fight these challenges.
He also assured the IGP that the Nigerian Customs was willing to learn more from the Nigeria Police Force in areas of arms handling and other operations, especially running of micro finance banks to be owned by the Nigerian Customs.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment