Share this on WhatsApp



By OKOSUN DENNIS
The 81 Division, Nigerian Army has expressed regret over the involvement of some soldiers in the alleged brutalisation of Makoko community in Lagos on Sunday.
The Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, Lt Col Kingsley Samuel, on  Wednesday at the 81 Division, Kof Abayomi said that the alleged incident was highly regrettable noting that the suspected soldiers are now in their custody.
In view of the scenario, the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Maj Gen Henry Isidore Edet has constituted a Board of Inquiry (BOD) to investigate the incident and submit its findings and recommendations within the next two to three weeks.
Lt Col Samuel reiterated that at the end of the investigations, “the BOD would unveil the circumstances that led to the soldiers action, who permitted them to take such action, how many of them were involved and what led to the fracas.”
ALSO SEE: Chibok Girls: Army declares 3 persons incuding journalist, woman wanted
The 81 Division spokesperson added that the two soldiers wounded during the fracas have been handed over to the division by the Lagos State Police command.
While stating that the attention of the army was drawn to ThisDay publication of Tuesday, 16 August, 2016, titled: “Two soldiers arrested for brutalising Lagos residents,” reiterated that “the incident was highly regrettable particularly now that 81 Division in conjunction with other security agencies and full cooperation of the civil populace is consolidating on the gains of successfully dislodging pipeline vandals and criminals elements in Ibafo and Arepo areas of Lagos and Ogun state respectively.
“81 Division frowns at this unfortunate incident and wishes to assure the general public that this unlawful act would not go unpunished if the soldiers are found culpable.
“Discipline remains the bedrock of military professionalism. Consequently, a Board of Inquiry has been constituted by the General Officer Commanding, 81 Division, Maj Gen Isidore Henry Edet to investigate the incident and submit its findings and recommendations.
“The Lagos state police Command has handed over the two soldiers allegedly involved in this unlawful act for investigation. Both soldiers are in 81 Division custody; and one of them who sustained injury is receiving treatment in the hospital.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment