Share this on WhatsApp



An independent study conducted by the Justice For All (J4A), has rated the Nigeria Police Force high in handling sexual assault cases in Nigeria compared to previous years where the force was said to have perform very low.
In a statement in Abuja on Wednesday by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Don Awunah, gave the statistics of the survey that rated the Nigeria Police Force high that NPF officer scored 94% in communication skills, 94% in sensitivity of police officers while they scored 92% in Information provided by the police officers.
Besides, it was also disclosed that the police performed extremely well in the feedback on the engagement with the Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC) counsellors.
In communication skills of the counsellor, the force was rated 98% while in sensitivity of police officer, it was scored 100%.
In his reaction, the Inspector General of Police, Acting IGP Ibrahim Idris and his management team, appreciated the survey noting that the rating was a clear testimony for more efficient service delivery.
“It is a clear testimony of his determination to turn around the Nigeria Police Force for more efficient service delivery by ensuring that the Force carried out its statutory duties based on international core values of policing with integrity for a safer Nigeria.
ALSO SEE: How police inspector raped girl, 15, at gunpoint in A’Ibom
He assured the Justice for All (J4A) that the Nigeria Police Force under his leadership would continue to partner with the organisation in all areas of its engagements in Nigeria with a view to strengthening the existing cordial relationship between the organisation and the Force.
It was learnt that Justice for All (J4A) Nigeria, funded the establishment of the first Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC) in Lagos State in 2013 complimented with the setting up of a second centre the following year in Enugu State to provide medical counselling and legal support for victims of sexual violence.
“The two centres operate feedback systems to better understand the needs of their clients and how they view experience at the SARC.  The results are testimonies to the changes occurring in Police Stations where the J4A programme has worked and to the Police officers elsewhere, trained by the programme.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment