Share this on WhatsApp



By OKOSUN DENNIS
The National Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) on Thursday in Lagos paraded two men for illegal bunkering and siphoning of Petroleum Motor Spirit (PMS).
The suspects identified as Tope  Asemudara, 43, and Alaba Omeje,  23, were arrested by the Anti-vandals squad of the agency about 10pm on Monday, 15th August, 2016, on the high sea of Apapa in Lagos.
The Commandant NSCDC, Lagos State Command, Mr Tajudeen Balogun said the suspects were arrested with 23 kegs of 50 litres filled with PMS and one engine boat of 50 horsepower capacity.
Mr Balogun said his agency would do everything possible to tackle the menace of vandals that have infested NNPC pipeline like a behemoth.
“Security challenge is a global thing including Nigeria. Of recent,  in consonance with other security agencies, the stronghold of vandals at Arepo in Ogun state and Ishawo and Elepete in Ikorodu Lagos state have been destroyed and flushed out including other criminal elements.
“We would continue to go after the vandals until they are completely eliminated. As far as we are concerned, they are economic saboteurs, Balogun reiterated.
One if the suspects,  Alaba,  an indigene of Ilase,  Ondo state and resides in Aloro,  Kirikiri said he was not the owner of the products but was hired to convey it before he was arrested.
Explaining further what he knew about the kegs found in his boat,  Alaba pointed out that,  “I am not a vandal but a boat rider. I was hired by Tope to convey the products for him at the rate if N200 each before I was arrested.
ALSO SEE: Navy expresses readiness to check illegal oil bunkering
Tope, the owner of the products said,  “I got the products legally. I used to work with a vessel called “Hajara”. They used to hire my boat as stand-by to transport her staff. Each time we were done,  they would give me some kegs of PMS as compensation in addition to what they would pay me.
“The product they gave me comes from the ship. I didn’t siphon it from NNPC pipeline. I was compensated for the work I did for them. They used to give three kegs but that day,  they gave me 23 kegs. Unfortunately,  I was arrested on my way to sell it, he explained.
Asked why he had to move the kegs at night, Tope said “they finished late at night hence I had to hire Alaba’s boat to convey the kegs filled with PMS because  my boat has fault.
“Sometimes too, I buy from them after they might have giving me three kegs. I buy a keg for N5,000 and resell to fishermen at Seme for N6,000.”
Also paraded were 14 men who were arrested at Ikeja for tapping Ikeja Electricity illegally despite being provided with prepaid meters.
Accepting responsibility for the crime,  Kolawole Awosoya, 43, said he was issued a prepaid meter but was not given a COS – the recharging box – that would enable him recharge regularly.
Kolawole, who was arrested with 13 others atJogosime Alausa court, Ikeja further explained that the COS was given to the landlord and refused to install it.  For the past one year.
“We have been complaining but nothing was done hence we had to engage in by-passing and connect directly to the main power supply since we couldn’t recharge our meters’, he added.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment