Share this on WhatsApp



By Inyali Peter, Calabar
Lafarge Africa has commenced training of fifty (50) youths of host communities in different skills acquisition program in Cross River State.
The youths where drawn from across ten neighboring communities of Mfamosing Plant, including Akansoko, Akwa Ikot Effanga, Abiati, Mbobui, Ekong Anaku, Diamond, Essien town and Kasuk.
Speaking, Mfamosing Plant Manager, Thierry Tierrere said that while training paint production, soap making, food and confectioneries and make up artistry is scheduled for a month, welding and fabrication, AC/Fridge repairs , tailoring and designing, fish farming, aluminium fabrication, tiling, cake and fondants skill acquisition session has a longer duration of four month to eight months.
The manger noted that the initiative was in furtherance of the company’s efforts at contributing to skills development, capacity building and overall economic empowerment of its neighboring communities and their people.
While explaining that the program is aimed at proving sustainable livelihood to the concerned youths he said the company identifies the youths as the rightful stakeholders with whom the company can always partner to build a better Nigeria.
ALSO SEE: FCMB empowers communities through training programmes
According to him, “Large Africa today launched a skills acquisition program for youths in Cross River state in furtherance of the company’s efforts at contributing to skills development, capacity building and overall economic empowerment of it’s neighboring communities and their people.
” The challenge of Nigeria’s economy require all of us, particularly the youths to be vigilant, focused and committed in order to attain a successful feat. Therefore, the company identified the youths as the future and rightful stakeholders with whom we can partner to build a better Nigeria “.
Participants and other stakeholders at the Flagg off commended Lafarge Africa for its efforts at empowering the community youths while pledging continued support for the well-being of the company.
One of the participants, Paul Asuquo 35 said that “This has been our agitation all this while and so we are happy that Lafarge has finally seen the need to empower their host communities through this training.
“We are very happy and urge the company to expand it to accommodate more people in their next face because we have been told that after our batch, new set of youths will be absorbed. We are ready to support the company in any way to ensure a friendly environment for their business to thrive”.
Another participant, Janet Eneyo noted that “When we complete this training it will not only be a source of livelihood for us but we will also train other of our people who were not selected.
“Things are very difficult everywhere so having something to do that will make you self-reliance is the only option to survive. We cannot depend on government for everything so I want to thank this company for this initiative and beg them to sustain it”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment