FROM CHRISTIANA EKPA, LOKOJA
THE immediate past governor of Kogi State and the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last governorship election, Capt Idris Wada, has disclosed that the dissenting judgments from the Court of Appeal over the election had given hope to him and democracy in the country.
Reacting to the appellate court judgment on his appeal before it, the former governor, who spoke through his special adviser on media and strategy, Jacob Edi, said he had never lost hope in the judiciary.
“We have never lost hope in the judiciary, we have always have hope in the judiciary of this country. Of particular note is the courage and statesmanship displayed by the judge that gave a dissenting judgment.
“He has shown courage where ordinary mortar has failed because the judgment he gave was also backed by the constitution of this country. So one wonders why the governorship appeal tribunal and four members of the panel overlooked that critical aspect of our constitution.
“The bottom line is that the political situation in Kogi state will fundamentally affect the jurisprudence of this country, some of the issues thrown up with the governorship election are issues that will improve our laws and test the efficacy of the rule of law in totality ”
Reacting to the appellate Court Victory, the State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello urged Idris Wada and James faleke to drop the supreme Court ideas in the interest of the State, stressing that, the father of the State, Prince Abubakar Audu will not be happy in his grave that the leaders of the State are not working together for the betterment of the State.
“We are brothers, our father, late Prince Abubakar Audu will not be please and happy in his grave that we are not working together”
ALSO SEE: Kogi NLC demands probe of govs over bail-out fund
“We understand that Wada met worst situation when he came in but we are here now here, let Wada please leave us at this junction to develop the State. We promise that we will not disappoint him. He will proud of our administration as the father of the State”
He said victory is in the hand of Allah and God will not stop what he has started half way, thanking the people of the State with promise to tackle the problem of insecurity and unemployment in the State.
Meanwhile, the victory of State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello at the Appeal Court has been described as victory for democracy.
Chairman of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Hon. Taufiq Isa stated this while reacting to the victory of the governor in Lokoja.
e said the judgment had finally put to rest condemnation and as persons being cast against the emergence of the governor, the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
“God’s will and purpose for the people of Kogi State was demonstrated and announced on the first court and the present appeal judgment and it will be difficult for anybody to upturn it.
He called on the people of the for cooperation and support to enable the administration of Yahaya Bello bring about the desired change and development in the state.

			
			Post Views: 
			269