Share this on WhatsApp



Olusola Teniola is the new President of Association Telecommunication of Nigeria (ATCON). In this interview with ADEDEJI ADEYEMIFAKOREDE he talks about his plans for ATCON which he presided and his plan for the telecom sector.
YOU have headed ATCON for three months,so far,what have you introduced to the association?
My leadership is one of service and to this I set myself three (3) top priority things to do within the 1st 100 days of assuming the President role of ATCON. They are; collaborating more with all stakeholders in the industry and this has happened in the first 30 days to attend West Africa Telecom Awards event in Accra and gave keynote speech this is the first time that this has been done and the outcome is that under my leadership ATCON will introduce industry awards event in the very near future to match that being performed on an annual basis in Ghana and we are revamping our web presence and portal, which effectively brings a total rebranding of our image this brand identity is key to ATCON’s future in this digital age.
How do you intend to run ATCON and what footprint would you want to leave behind upon the completion of your two years term?
I truly believe in servant leadership style and this means serving our members, the industry and consumers to solve the various problems that we shall encounter. The legacy I seek is a stronger association in its advocacy capability in both Nigeria and worldwide.
How did you feel when you were announced the winner of the election that fetched you this new role?
Humbled and with a great sense of responsibility
You are managing two strong entities, being the Managing Director of internet solutions as well as President of ATCON , how do u combine these roles?
Infact, I’ve been fortunate to have a great team around me in both ATCON and IS Internet Solutions that provides the necessary support for me to remain effective in both roles.
ATCON has been pleading with FG to reduce the amount of fine imposed on MTN, couldn’t ATCON had prevented the establishment of such fine in the first place by cautioning MTN when it failed to disconnect 5.1 million unregistered subscribers’ SIM cards, as one of the roles of the association is is to maintain the highest standard of professional and technical conduct in telecommunications sector?
MTN joined ATCON as a fully active member after the fine was levied on it! Any member of ATCON can place before us issues that they deem necessary for our intervention and this is a role we take seriously and look to be more proactive in. We have recently solicited from our members issues that they still want ATCON to deal with and this is just one way we influence various decisions that may impact the industry and consumers.
What Lessons has the association learnt from the fine imposed on MTN by NCC and what steps are you taking to ensure that your members elude such fine in the future?
We’ve learnt that membership of ATCON is a must for any serious telecoms business operating in Nigeria and we seek to also encourage membership of ICT companies that have exposure to the telecommunication eco-space to join in advocacy functions that will assist in influencing the direction of this vibrant, dynamic and important industry.
On the issue of unsolicited text messages in which all the telcos are guilty of, the NCC recently issued a directive that says from July 20,2016, any telecoms service provider who sends unsolicited text messages to subscribers will be fined 10 million naira, unfortunately, subscribers still get such messages even after July 20. What is ATCON doing to address this, despite that there had been series of warnings prior to this recent directive?
ATCON is engaging NCC on the implementation of the ‘Do Not Disturb’ framework and adherence to it by our members. It is important to note that any issues that may occur with this system to reduce unsolicited text messages must be levied via the proper channels (i.e. the operator’s customer service) for resolution and NCC should be viewed as the last resort if this fails.
Do you see prospects for the new network, Ntel in Nigeria in the midst of strong competitors?
I strongly believe that competition is the basis for any healthy working market and note that Ntel is not going to be the only new network to launch in Nigeria the prospect of more types of networks to come is very positive for the industry and the consumers and I believe the prospect of Ntel is just as good as any other network that is operating in Nigeria funding is a challenge in operating an extensive network in Nigeria and one that all players in the industry are aware of.
ALSO SEE: ATCON wants NCC’s urgent action on VAS number plan allocation
Being a pan-African telecoms service provider, what are the contributions of internet solutions to Nigerian Telecommunications system?
Internet Solutions is a pan-African Enterprise provider of carrier grade Internet Services to Governments, Multi-National Companies and large Corporates and is a dominant player in the Enterprise Segment across the regions it operates in.
Tell us some of the high profile jobs internet solutions has done in the country?
Is Internet Solutions was involved in providing communication services to a majority of well-known banks, government agencies and key security institutions that is the bedrock of the country and will continue to be so, utilizing the specialist skill sets deployed in providing such level of service to these types of clients.
How do you think technology can be used to solve security problem in the country?
Big Data is the key to solving security problems in the country information is the ingredients of intelligence agencies and systems (more automated) are the enabler alongside reliable connectivity across the country that will transport information to the relevant users. All technology does is to provide an opportunity to change the way we do things and solve problems when we embrace Big Data, we have an opportunity to address security issues in the country.
What is the future of Telecommunications sector in Nigeria?
Telecommunications is globally massive and represents USD$5trn per annum across the globe. Internet of Things (IoT) has been suggested by research will dwarf this by as much as USD$8trn per annum by 2030. We are just scratching the surface of what is possible and I am happy to be a part of this changing story in Nigeria.
In a layman’s language, tell us what Internet Solutions is all about?
Providing reliable access and connection to the Internet across Africa.
You clocked the golden age on July 10th.Looking back in the last 50 years, what has been your greatest achievement?
I’ve lived a privileged life, born in London, schooled in the UK, worked for some of the best telecom companies in the world alongside some of the best brains in the world and being able to bring this to bear in Nigeria. My greatest achievement is to have done all this with a loving and adorable family that has supported me and continues to do so.
Even at age 50, some people, usually go on a low key celebration, but you have chosen to celebrate your golden age in a big way, why so and what would you be celebrating?
I would have naturally celebrated my 50th in London where my dad, siblings, and a number of my cousins and friends live. However, in recognition that I also have a family in Nigeria, acquaintances, and colleagues; it is only a great way to thank God and them for their support of the last 7 years I’ve been back in Nigeria.
Of all the gifts presented to you on your 50th birthday, which is your favourite gift and who presented it to you?
My wife’s gift is the best for many reasons!
Any regret in the last 50 years?
None. Everything has been a journey.
In your next phase of life,what do you aim to achieve?
By the Grace of God I shall focus on social projects, serve the nation and retire as a farmer in my village in Idanre.
How much of family time has ATCON and Internet Solutions taken away from you?
All the working time that I don’t spend with family.
Do you have time to unwind at all? What do you do at your leisure time?
Yes. I play tennis, squash, golf and spend time with family whenever possible.
What is your most admired asset?
Family.
If you were not a technologist, what would you be?
Airline pilot.
As an engineer, what practical skills do you have?
Problem solving and decision making skills.
Which is your favourite network; MTN, Glo, Etisalat, Airtel or Ntel?
All.
What network do you use presently and why?
Etisalat and MTN wide coverage and good data services.
ALSO SEE: ATCON pushes for secondary, free spectrum market
What is the name of the first mobile phone you used and how much was it?
Motorola MicroTAC. Can’t remember how much I paid for this in 1990!
Did you see prospects for the telecommunication sector when GSM was introduced in year 2001?
GSM has and was already dominant in Europe and only a matter of time before it became the defacto standard in Nigeria.
Name the fashion accessory you will always be caught with?
Briefling watch.
What are your likes and dislikes?
Dislike: Lazy people. Like: Hardworking people.
What do you know how to do best?
Computer Programming.
You are a member of institute of directors both in Nigeria and London, how has been a member of the Institute influenced your managerial attitude?
My MBA education more than my memberships of the IoD defined my current managerial style it is important that mentorship also helped to mould me into who I am.
Most people usually condemn the choice of polytechnic education, you finding yourself in the polytechnic, was it intentional or conditional?
In the UK and Germany, polytechnics are highly regarded for engineering disciplines I was fortunate to do mine at South Bank in the 1980s.
In this part of the world, most people believe that it is ones educational certificate that can pave way for one. However, the likes of Zuckerberg and Bill Gates who are super successful today were school drop-outs. What is your take on this?
For the Bill Gates and Zuckerbergers of this world there are many graduates that have contributed to their success, for instance, in the case of Microsoft, the actual program sold as the best-selling Operating System wasn’t written by Bill Gates but his co-partner! You need a degree in Engineering or Computer Science to succeed in this industry, otherwise, you may need to have the fortune to be a Bill Gates!
Talk about your background and your growing up?
I’m the eldest of 7 children, born in London and then brought to Nigeria to school in 1977 to 1982, to complete my O’ Levels; studied Engineering after my A’Levels. Worked with a number of technology companies during the 90’s and then joined Cisco in 2000 and proceeded to do my MBA (MBath UK) in General Management in 2002. Ran my first telecom company in 2004 in Portugal and returned to Nigeria in 2009 after being awarded an ISP licence in 2005. Since my return I’ve had the opportunity to run two telecom companies in Nigeria. My earliest memories that I was going to be an Engineer according to my father, was my ability to strip apart our Black and White TV back then in the early 70’s and to begin to put it back together again though my daddy had to then call in the TV technician to come in to make sure it was safe to use.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment