Share this on WhatsApp



By IFEOMA IKEM
The Inspector-General of Police Ibrahim Idris, on Wednesday said in Lgaos that efforts were on to check criminals operating at creeks and waterways in Nigeria.
Idris stated this during interactive meeting with security stakeholders in Lagos State, stressing that criminal activities on the waterways and creeks were of serious concern to him.
“I have been to Niger Delta area to assess security situation and there is the urgent need to call for collaboration between the police and communities in the areas to effectively fight crimes.
“We have serious security plan to cover all creeks and waterways from Lagos to Niger Delta areas,” he said.
IGP Idris further reiterated that one way to check crimes nationwide was through regular meeting between the police and community people.
“I believe in policing with the community and not policing at the community. Together, we can discuss and find common solutions to problems not just of security but also of safety, the protection of all in the society.
He explained his approach was aimed at giving reality to the historic proposition that the police are the community and the community area the police.
ALSO SEE: Police arrest syndicates for issuing threat letters to influential Nigerians
“I will encourage you to use all means available to you to bring topical issues to our attention. I expect people to be members of Eminent Persons Forum in all communities. This forum is one of my strategies to police all communities in Nigeria. I am partnering with Lagos Commissioner of Police to ensure that the state is safer for all,” Idris said.
He urged members of the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) to improve the conditions of the police in their areas.
Some of the stakeholders highlighted that some areas where the IGP should pay attention to in Lagos, including more patrol vehicles, policing waterways, protecting schools, curbing cultism among others.
The traditional rulers, PCRC members, market women and communities were part of the interactive meeting.
AIG Idris, who is the 19th indigenous IGP; visited Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode at the government house, and Ikorodu areas where militants killed some peoples recently in Lagos.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment