Share this on WhatsApp



GOVERNOR of Anambra State, Mr. Willie Obiano, Senator Victor Umeh, former Minister of Information and National Secretary of All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, Mr. Labaran Maku a, have wooed voters to vote for the Edo All Progressives Grand Alliance candidate (APGA), Mr. Osaro Onaiwu to continue with the development strides of the All Progressives Congress in the state, led by Adams Oshiomole.
Governor Obiano Willie made the appeal while speaking at the Governorship flag off ceremony of Mr. Osaro Onaiwu at Urokpota ground, Benin City yesterday.
Obiano who said the Governor of Edo State, Comrade Adams Oshiomole has done excellently well in developing the state, stressed that what is imperative is the continuation of the good work he has started which the candidate of APGA, Mr. Osaro Onaiwu would continue and build on.
“We are not here to criticize anybody. The Governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomole has done well by developing the state but we need somebody that can continue from where he has stopped. This gentleman will continue the good work the Comrade Governor has done”, he said.
The Executive Governor of Anambra State further appealled to the governorship candidate to aways uphold the tenets of the party which respect the traditional institution, accommodate new members into the party and be tax friendliness.
ALSO SEE: Ize-Iyamu berates Oshiomhole over politics of hates
Also speaking at the rally, which was largely dominated by party’s supporters from the Eastern States, Umeh. Mr. Umeh said Mr. Osaro Onaiwu has come to do all the works left undone by this present administration noting that he is the only solution to all the infrastructural and socio-economical problems facing the state.
Umeh said they all came from the Eastern States in solidarity with the governorship candidate of the party which must be delivered on September 10.
Umeh noted that APGA as a party, is the third largest party in Nigeria and that when there are crises in other parties across the states, the party has been exonerated from such pointing that the party is what the country needs at the moment. On the part of the national secretary of the party, Mr. Labaran Maku, he said there is no one solutions to the problems of the state but believed that the governorship candidate of the party is part of the solution.
He added that Mr. Osaro Onaiwu would replicate the massive developments experienced in Anambra State in Edo State just as he noted that Anambra State is the only state that is not indebted to any of the banks amongst other states but has done well in the development of the state.
Mr. Maku further charged the youths to vote for the party’s candidate and defend their votes.
The Governorship Candidate, Mr. Osaro Onaiwu, while delivering his seven points agenda before his teeming supporters, he told them that his government will be all encompassing noting that pensioners, youths, market women would be adequately catered for.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment