Share this on WhatsApp



The Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) has uncovered two oil spillage points in Diamond estate and at the premises of winners satellite church, Iyana-odo both in Lagos.
This disclosure was made following an operation exercise led by the Commandant of NSCDC, Mr Tajudeen Balogun after a report by residents of the estate drew the agency’s attention to the oil spillage of Petroleum Motor Spirit (PMS).
It was learnt that a pool of petroleum motor spirit was found behind the estate wall.
According to the president of the resident’s association, Mr. Dipo Ojikitu, said the residents had sent written complaint to NNPC and other necessary regulatory agencies but nothing has been done.
He further said that most of the boreholes in the estate has been polluted by petroleum product which has made it’s usage impossible, as residents have to get water from other sources.
The commandant, Tajudeen A. Balogun, said the Corps will do everything in it’s power to correct this anomaly by working with the necessary agencies to avoid any possible hazardous occurrence.
ALSO SEE: NSCDC parades 16 pipeline vandals, illegal tapping of electricity 
Also,  another spillage was uncovered in a well at the premises of winners satellite church, Iyana-odo.
However, the well was first discovered by the Nigerian Army and handed over to the corps
The well was found to have had petroleum products suspected to be PMS. Also, the Pastor of the church, Oladela Paul, said the church had sent a formal complaint to NNPC when it noticed that the well had fuel instead of water but are yet to get any response.
He appealed to the necessary authorities to do the needful. He further said that the spillage has become a source of harassment to the church and it’s members as different agencies keeps coming in their numbers to see the extent of the spill thereby causing disruption in its activities.
He also lamented about the possibility of impending hazard which cannot be overemphasized.
In his response, the Commandant,Tajudeen Balogun said the Corps in conjunction with the relevant agencies will do the needful saying that the visit was necessitated in order to evaluate the extent of the spillage and take necessary actions.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment