Share this on WhatsApp



By KINGSLEY CHUKWUKA, Jos
GOVERNOR Simon Lalong of Plateau State last week inaugurated a Judicial Commission of Inquiry to review the administration of his predecessor, Sen. Jonah Jang.
Lalong said that the inquiry became necessary as it will further showcase his administration’s commitment to probity, accountability and transparency in governance.
Gov. Lalong said that the burden to expose the activities of the immediate past governor was deepened with the magnitude of information at his disposal, beginning from the submission of the Transition Committee, headed by the Deputy Governor, Prof. Sonni Gwanle Tyoden and the various ministerial verification committees, as well the preliminary audit and accounts reconciliation committee information before him, which revealed hug debts inherited from the last administration.
Lalong, who gave the newly inaugurated six-man Judicial Commission of Inquiry three months to probe Jang, said his government has not failed to repeatedly reiterate its desire to ensure that the past administration is made to give public account of its stewardship in the State.
His words, “this past one year of my administration, facts are daily denied, twisted and distorted, this is indeed worrisome; it is the belief of my administration that only after facts are publicly obtained and tested, will the truth be brought to bear on the issue agitating the minds of Patriotic Plateau People, hence the new line of action”, he said.
Responding, Senator Jonah Jang said that he joyfully welcome the development in the interest of peace and stability, especially as he has grown weary of the inconsequential rantings, outbursts, threats, and sensational media trial of his illustrious time as Governor of Plateau State which the Lalong administration now leads to the fringes of nihility.
ALSO SEE: Jos set to revive catfish farming, partners WAAPP
Jang who spoke through his Media Aide, Mr. Clinton Garuba, in a press statement said; “for the umpteenth time, he finds it most apt to reiterate his stand on the issue in perspective, as it relates to his stewardship in Plateau State which has undoubtedly benefited the people, that he absolutely without equivocation has nothing to hide”.
“As at the last count, the Judicial Commission of Inquiry is the fifth committee Lalong has constituted, mandated, empowered, and inaugurated to probe the tenure of the former Governor and like the rest before it, nothing would be gained except the visible characteristics of all associated with power acquired by accident.
“From the Deputy Governor’s committee to the others who engaged in arithmetic abracadabra to bamboozle people with figures which existed only in the minds of their apologists and praise singers, so much money has been expended in what is now a wild goose chase.
“It would be recalled that Governor Simon Lalong had recently petitioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to probe Senator Jonah Jang only to impulsively resort to self-help by constituting the commission of inquiry when his phantom claims and capricious desires were not indulged. It is indeed worrisome that a State so bountifully blessed with both natural and useful human resources now rests on the shoulders of someone who has failed to get anything right since becoming Governor, including even the small matter of framing and persecuting his perceived adversaries.
“Senator Jonah Jang is ever ready to give an account of his time as Governor of Plateau State even though his good works, legacies, and good intention would surely outlive him, as long as the process is without bias and predetermined outcomes. We are studying the composition and terms of reference of the Judicial Commission as constituted by the Governor, so we can take an informed decision which shall be our position on the matter”, the statement stressed.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment