Share this on WhatsApp



By Isaac Tersoo Agber
Beer drinkers in Lagos, Nigeria and Africa are in for a grand celebration of the International Beer Day with a difference come 5th of August, 2016, thanks to the Sheraton Lagos Hotel. The hotel team has deployed its best to host its esteem customers, especially lovers of larger and sports, at its luxurious Goodie Pub.
The event is meant to celebrate the importance of beer as a world most commonly used beverage for unity and friendship under a themed banner – “Celebrating the Beers of all Nations Together on a Single Day.” The celebration will include a commemoration of those responsible for brewing and serving beer.
At the Goodies Pub, Sheraton Lagos, beer lovers will have the opportunity to sample various brands of unique beers especially the Salito Beer. The Goodies Pub is known for serving some of the best beers in town for great deals such as 500ml Castle Draught Beer for N500; there will also be buy one get one free opportunities so beer lovers will definitely be in for a treat.
The prestigious hotel also promises to educate people on the contents, economic/health values of each beer on display, explaining the art and unique blend of their different brands. The idea is for everyone to gather with friends or make new friends while enjoying the taste of beer.
ALSO SEE: Bekeleke: The seamy side of sunny Obudu Mountain Resorts
A parallel development that coincides with the World Beer Day is the World Olympics. Celebrants of the day and sports lovers will experience a thrilling environment which will showcase various games from the Olympics starting on the 5th of August 2016.
During this period the Goodies Pub will be opened daily from 2pm for all guests, so they can enjoy each game amidst a great ambiance while catching up with family and friends.
Sports lovers living within the Ikeja environs are not left out as they will be able to walk in and join in the fun while watching various countries compete in different games from swimming to long jump. There is something for every guest and the Sheraton Lagos and the promise that no one will miss out on their favorite sport.
Guests will also be treated to special food items or national dishes from participating countries.
All customers are encouraged to drop their business cards in the raffle box to stand a chance of winning great prizes ranging from items from Olympic sponsors to meals at the restaurant.
With 332 guest rooms and suites all furnished with the signature “Sheraton Bed” to provide a premium sleep experience, drinkers won’t have to bother going home at the end of the event. The hotel is a wonderful home away from home with 4 meeting rooms, a ball room, 5 F&B outlets, a world class gym and a swimming pool to cool off fatigue or boredom.
Sheraton provides services aimed at creating personalized and effortless experiences ensuring that guests, whether on business or on leisure, can always experience more and more.
The Sheraton Lagos looks forward to having all beer lovers and enthusiasts come together to celebrate the world’s most widely consumed and oldest alcoholic beverages.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment