Share this on WhatsApp



• Choose some crops production for export
By FRANK OYAKHILOME
THE Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, has disclosed recently in Abuja that the ministry will begin the paddock development (growing of special grasses for cattle) in August, as the ministry has started bringing in the special seeds of grass (fodder seeds) into the country.
Ogbehhas assured Nigerians that with the paddock development, the clash between farmers and herdsmen in the country would be put to an end, adding that the clash between farmers and herdsmen has been getting worse by the years and by the grace of God his administration will bring it to an end.
The Minister reiterated that no farmer would allow his crops to be eaten by cattle, stressing that no farmer in the world would like to plant his crops and arrive to see that cows have eaten everything up. He however noted that the problem had persisted because over the years, successive governments had not done enough to check the problem.
Ogbeh noted that most of the conflicts were been perpetuated by Fulanis from some West African countries like Senegal, Mauritania, Mali among others, as he cited an instance where some of the herdsmen arrested could not speak any of the Nigerian languages.
Thus, he said that there was a need for the country to end the herdsmen roaming with cattle even if it was a culture or not, we cannot afford it any more, as one culture cannot become a source of conflict in the nation.
ALSO SEE: Herdsmen resume hostility in Benue
The Minister further revealed that there are 415 gazing reserves spread across the country, with Adamawa accounting for 73, adding that some are recorded in the gazette, while some are not. Adding that many of them have been encroached upon, explaining that that the FCT was one of the routes, serving cattle going to the South-East and South-South from the North-West through Benue.
He went further to explain that after the development of ranches, it would be an offence for any herdsmen to allow his cattle to roam the streets and that land has been allocated to government in some states that would be used for ranches for herdsmen to acquire for their cattle.
The Minister stressed that cattle produce more litres of milk when they are kept in one place than when they walk about in search of food, adding that the ministry was collaborating g with the Ministry of Interior to provide security at the ranches to check activities of cattle rustlers.
Ogbeh who explained that after some time, the country would become an exporter of the grass to earn foreign exchange, explained that the Saudi Arabia has already made request to purchase if Nigeria can grow enough grass for export.
In the same vein, Ogbeh pledges that the Federal Government would continue to encourage the production of some selected crops in the country for export, at a North-West Business Summit and Exhibition in Kano, organised by The Daily Trust Newspapers in collaboration with the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), with the theme“Unlocking the Agriculture and Solid Minerals Potentials of the Zone”.
The Minister, represented by the Managing Director, Bank of Agriculture, Prof. DanbalaDanju, said the measure was in line with the government’s effort to diversify the economy for the nation`s sustainable development, adding that the FG will prioritize for export markets, the production of the following crops and activities: cowpeas, cocoa, cashew, cassava, ginger, sesame, oil palm, yams, fruits and vegetables as well as beef and cotton.
Ogbeh explained that the ministry would also work with investors, farmers, processors and other stakeholders to deepen the supporting infrastructure to ensure that quality was defined and maintained across the value chain. He added that the Ministry will also ensure that farmers and investors are working in a market that is safe, competitive, and capable of enabling wealth creation in the country.
The Minister specifically said that the ministry is engaging many stakeholders, including the Nigerian Agribusiness Group (NABG), being led by a Kano state indigene, Alhaji Sani Dangote, to facilitate trade and investment, as the government would continue to support value chains through adequate provision of specialised fertilisers and protection of chemicals, as well as high-yielding seeds to boost food production.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment