Share this on WhatsApp



The local Organising Committee (LOC) of the International Telecommunication Union has is set to hold a stakeholder forum ahead of the ITU Telecom event slated for November-17,2016 in Bangkok, Thailand.
The forum which is slated for Monday, September 5, 2016 at the Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Ikeja, is expected to enlighten and throw more light on the benefits that will spring from participation of stakeholders.
The forum is for Policy Makers, Regulators, Telecommunication Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Vendors, Banks and Financial Institutions, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), Innovators, Software Developers, Original Equipment Vendors, Value Added Service providers among others.
Keynote speakers include the Minister of Communications, Chief Adebayo Shittu; Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta; Managing Director of Galaxy Backbone, Mr. Yusuf Kazaure, his counterpart at Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT), Ms Abimbola Alale; Acting Director General of National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Dr. Vincent Olatunji among others.
ALSO SEE: NCC, Ogun State settle dispute over 47 shut telecoms BTS
This year’s ITU Telecom event will hold in Bangkok, Thailand from November 14 – 17, 2016. ITU Telecom World 2016 will provide participants the opportunity to network and showcase their innovations and tap new business models in Information and Communications Technology (ICT) terrain.
Participants will explore importance of collaboration with the digital economy through best approaches, business models and technologies to forge flourishing inclusive ecosystem.
Nigeria has adopted “Smart Communities: the key to a digital Nigeria” as theme.
The general theme for ITU Telecom World 2016 is “Collaboration in the digital economy”.
This year’s theme will feature compelling formats ranging from top-level CEO/Ministerial round tables to frank, open dialogues between Governments and Small & Medium business leaders and interactive panel debate.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment