Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
Sen. Adeseye Ogunlewe, has counseled Nigerian youths to major more on skill acquisitions,as it remains the only means of tackling unemployment and economic hardship.
Ogunlewe, a former Minister of Works, gave the charge at the Graduation Ceremony of Free Computer Training Programme organised by a Lagos lawmaker, Hon Olusola Sokunle.
Sokunle, a PDP lawmaker at the Lagos State House of Assembly representing Oshodi Isolo Constituency I, graduated 130 students from his computer training institute.
Ogunlewe said that the increasing rate of unemployment was threatening the future, safety and security of the country, stressing that skill acquisitions could be used to tackle the trend.
“Youths today do not need to concentrate only on formal education. You must be able to do something with your hands.
“There is nothing you cannot become if you know what are doing and where you are going. Nigerian youths can make billions of naira if they embrace enterprenuerial skills.
“Most youths can become great if they pursue their career with proper planning, passion and focus.
According to him, many youths can make it as cooks, singers, computer gurus, fashion designers, caterers, among other skills.
He, however, warned the youths against negative influence of peer groups, advising them to use the skills for societal development.
ALSO SEE: Flooding feared in Lagos, Ibadan, Port Harcourt, others
In his remark, Shokunle said, “We are graduating over 130 students from our computer training institute established purposely for the empowerment of youths of Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 1.
“The computer training exercise is part of my mission to rebuild our teeming youths and the environment such that Oshodi would be among the best area in Lagos and Nigeria.
“I understand the fact that political power is to be used for the benefit of the people because it is through the people that political elite gain power for the purpose of developing the society.”
The lawmaker said he was committed to using his position to empower the people, most especially the youths who are vulnerable in the constituency.
He added, “I will continue to use education to rebuild the youths of Oshodi and also to position them in the right direction.
“I will continue to do my best in developing our youths because they are both leaders of today and tomorrow. An investment in the youths is an investment in the future of the nation.
“The door of great opportunities will be opening to you, use your skills to explore digital business, digital communication, online marketing, graphic designs and animation.
He advised the youths to be good ambassadors of Oshodi, urging the graduant to use the skills to empower themselves, their family and society.
In his remark, Mrs Amidat Anifowose, Tutor General/ Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Education District VI said that skill acquisitions would help youths become employers of labour and self- reliant.
“Unemployment has become one of the greatest challenges facing our nation today. Most employers now believe in practicality not in certificate alone.
“It is very important to know that the state government has done a lot to help the youth to be self-reliant and become employers of labour and not employee,” Anifowose said.
One of the beneficairies Mr. Hosea Akhator, described the training as “an eye opener”, adding that the education would help rebrand Oshodi youths which he said were full of potential
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment