Share this on WhatsApp



By ODUNEWU SEGUN
ONE of the electricity distribution companies, Ikeja Electric has introduced a Debt Discount initiative which provides various percentage discount options to enable customers pay off their outstanding bills and meet their financial obligations to the company.
The initiative, designed specifically for unmetered non-maximum demand (NMD) customers, was put in place to provide an avenue to support customers especially those who are financially constrained by the present economic realities.
Explaining the concept behind this initiative, the company’s Head Corporate Communications, Felix Ofulue said: “Ikeja Electric decided to introduce this scheme as a form of financial support to our customers who are willing to pay down on outstanding amounts owed us. By providing this discount to them, we also share part of the cost of the consumed energy”.
The three tier scheme provides a 10 percent discount for customers who owe between =N=50,000 and =N=100,000.00; 15 percent discount for those owing above =N=100,000 but less than =N=200,000 and 20 percent discount for customers who owe above =N=200,000.00.
Customers are however required to apply to the company, stating if they wish to participate in the outright or installment debt discount exercise.
Interested customers are encouraged to visit the Customer Care representatives situated at Service Centers, Undertakings or Business Units closest to them for more details with regard to their application. Further enquiries can also be directed to customercare@ikejaelectric.com.
ALSO SEE: NLC lauds Judiciary over reversal of electricity tariff hike
”So far the response has been good and a further testimony to the fact that many of our customers are responsible citizens who given the right circumstances will rather pay than owe”, Ofulue said.
The company’s efforts at easing transaction and payment options for customers was recently recognized at the 2016 Efficiency Awards, organized by the Nigeria Interbank Settlement Scheme (NIBSS Plc) where Ikeja Electric bagged the prestigious Cashless Driver Merchant Award, in recognition of her outstanding performance in driving the CBN cashless initiative by recording the highest Point of Sale (POS) transaction count on the National Central Switch (NCS) for the year 2015.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment