Former Super Eagles goalkeeper and CEO of BRW Sports Management ltd, Abiodun Baruwa (M.O.N.). The ex-international has assured that he won’t turn down any offer to handle any of the country’s national sides or football clubs. He spoke with ESTHER EGBE recently about what is happening in Nigeria’s football and more.
WHEN did you realize you have talent for a career in football?
Like all other kids my age, I realize I love the game of football so much from the age of like 8 or 9 years old.
During your time, lots of players were discovered from secondary schools, but that seems to have stopped. What is your take on this?
Actually this is the one of the reasons our football is not developing like what obtains in European countries. The problem is at the youth levels. Especially all secondary schools games calls principal cup all over the country, this is where all this players came out from, we all end up playing for our respective schools then states and end up playing for our beloved country too, if you look at today’s players, 90% of them don’t even have the basic on how to learn the game like we do.
What year did you play for Nigeria?
First I played for the under-23 in all African Games, we won Bronze medals in Harare Zimbabwe 1995, then Olympics 1996, then after that I played for super eagles from 1997 until 1998.
ALSO SEE: Armless table tennis player thrills world
Did you play for any local clubs? If any, what club was that?
I played for several local clubs. Some of the clubs included Jidoze Babes academy, African Alliance football club, National Bank Lagos, Super Stores football club, Kano pillars football club, Heartland football club, Shooting stars football club (3sc). I played professional football with Fc Sion Switzerland, Sk stürmer Graz Austria, Dagenham&Redbidge football club and Hornchurch football club.
What is the difference between footballs of now and then?
The different between footballs now and then is that big money is involved now unlike then. More so the technology has improved greatly to what was obtained during my active football days.
Is football dying or improving In Nigeria?
I will say football is not dying right here in Nigeria. But there is more we could do to make us very closed to the rest of the world. We should do more.
What is your jersey favorite number?
My favorite jersey number usually double numbers, due to the fact that every club I go from when I was young, someone is always there before I got there with number one, so every time I won the number one jersey again I always stick to my old double numbers.
Who were your notable companions during your days in active football?
I have few friends in all my teams, but I will rather keep that to myself.
What do you think about Sunday Oliseh resigning?
Oliseh resignation was unfortunately, I believe in my opinion he could have hang on in there much Longer, am sure he has his own reason to resign. He might not be happy, but he had his reasons.
Do you think Nigeria needs Foreign Coach?
In my opinion, I don’t think we need foreign coaches or managers. NFF should do more to send all the coaches under them to do some attachment training with big clubs in Europe or in South America. All over the world everyone is trying to keep up, talking about coaching knowledge in football. I think we are behind a bit. Because now you don’t have to coach alone, you have to be able to manage your team too; everyone has to be onboard from Physio to the guy who looks after kits.
How long have you been coaching?
I have been coaching now for more than 2 years.
ALSO SEE: EPL’s Big 5 lobby guarantee spots in UCL
What clubs have you worked for?
I have only involved with a Youth side club here in Essex England.
What strikes you about the new environment?
I’m used to the environments. I already have my level 2 in coaching outfield players and level 2 in coaching Goalkeepers; I will be working to get my UEFA license soon.
Why did you switch to coaching?
I had to become a coach because that knowledge is in me and people always told me, so I went for coaching course, because they saw it i can be a good one.
Can you coach Nigeria league or national team?
I hope to, of cause the purpose is to coach a team in Nigeria and hopefully one day in the near future, I will be proud to be one of our beloved National team coach. Even if I will jump on the opportunity to coach any football club back there at home too.
How was Sunday Oliseh in his days of active football?
It’s funny though, Oliseh is always a very hard working player, very professional from the young age.I was lucky to play in the same academy with him and his brother called Churchill, we are all good footballers from that young age. He can be too serious sometimes about his passion for the game, but it’s all in a positive way.
Do you think NFF is doing the work in helping Nigerians coaches? 
Not at all. They needs to help coaches and organize for coaches to Go Abroad and learn the management part of the game and to improve their coaching Cv too, I think the best way is to attached them to club in the Big League all over the world .