Share this on WhatsApp



PRESIDENT of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Pastor Ayo Oritsejafor, has said excessive greed, hatred and wickedness have continued to permeate every area of the Nigerian society.
Oritsejafor who made the statement in an Easter goodwill message to Christians and Nigerians, explained that Christians must continue to keep faith in love and self-sacrifice for the growth of the country.
Oritsejafor said: “As we join other faithful across the world to commemorate the crucifixion of our Lord Jesus Christ on Good Friday, I enjoin all Christians to reflect on the lessons of the solemn celebration especially as it affects their lives.
“At a time when Christians in parts of the country are plagued by insurgency, I call for steadfastness and unwavering faith in God, the maker of all things.
“This solemn ceremony marks Christians’ commemoration of Christ’s crucifixion on Good Friday and as such all activities of the church must be seen to reflect the virtues of sacrifice and love, which Christ himself exhibited through his death on the cross,” he said.
ALSO SEE: American don identifies joblessness as greatest bane of Nigeria
According to the CAN president, “Evil won’t have the last word, but love, mercy and pardon will. Nigerians must always be guided by this lesson. The message of the cross must be truly put into practice in all its ramifications.
“As Christ paid the ultimate sacrifice for mankind on Good Friday, Nigerians must also learn to sacrifice for their fellow being in any way they can. Sacrifices many not necessarily one exemplified by dying for others, it could be demonstrated by giving alms, helping the needy and carrying out other works of mercy in the society.
“So as you reflect on this solemn celebration, may we all be reminded of God’s plan for mankind which was fulfilled by Christ against all odds. The message of sacrifice, love and humility which is the focus of Good Friday must permeate through our society especially as greed, hatred and wickedness continue to dominate the affairs of some in our midst.”
The CAN president urged Nigerians to “reject those promoting the message of division and violence in our society, for good will ultimately prevail over evil. This should be the watch word for all Christians in this season of sacrifice and forgiveness.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment