Share this on WhatsApp



By NOSA ERESOYEN, Asaba
GOVERNMENT House in Asaba was practically shut down as hundreds of protesting women blocked the main gate into Delta State Government House for about four hours, demanding the release of four kinsmen arrested by the police.
The women who chanted solidarity songs with placards bearing of various inscriptions: “Youths are the Future of Tomorrow, Release our Youths Now; We need our youths, husbands, fathers back, we seek their bail; Release Issele Azagba Youths, they are our Future.”
The women from Issele Azagba community arrived the state house in 12 buses an marched on the Delta State House of Assembly, State Headquarters of the Nigerian Police before arriving Government House.
The leader of the protesting women, Madam Victoria Isichei, said about three weeks ago, four youths of the community were apprehended by the police and remanded in the prison.
“We are from Issele Azagba. Issele Azagba and Utulu were fighting over a piece of farmland leading to the death of four people in a fight, while many were injured.
The fight was said to have taken place near Issele Azagba Mixed Secondary School, and in order to keep security, the school principal invited the vigilante to restore order and security.
However, some police officers who wer initially invited arrested those vigilante boys and
took them to prison. For about three weeks now, they have not been released. “What are their crimes? They asked.
The woman claimed that the police also arrested the Principal that invited the vigilante but later released him while the boys are still being held. “We will not fold our hands and wait until they die in police custody. They are innocent, and they must be released,” they added.
The names of the detainees include: Eziafa Nwotokpo, Dikeamaka Okonji, Sampson Uwandulu, and Ndubuisi Odum.
Responding, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Mr Charles Aniagwu said: “Demonstrations and protests are the rights of every Nigerian, stressing that the police regulates the activities of vigilante groups presupposing that if the police arrests them, it might mean there was no cordial relationship between the police and
the vigilante.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment