Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
The Lagos Assembly frowned at the misdemeanor of Fulani herdsmen on the state metropolis, decrying their activities on BRT lanes which amounts to blocking of traffic flow, as blatant violation of traffic law of the state.
In a motion moved by the Majority leader Sanai Agunbiade, he noted that cattle rearers now takes to BRT lanes which has no grass to graze for their cattle, between Owode Onirin and Mile 12 at noon.
This act he noted need be curbed before it goes beyond what the state can handle, because even the Lagos traffic laws section 3 subsection 1, section 24 all prohibits such development.
Contributing on the issue,Hon. Rotimi Olowo chairman Budget and economic planning committee,noted that the attendant negative effect of the development is alarming, he urge that the Ministry of Information be directed to embark on awareness campaign in various indigenous Nigerian languages to curtail the ill conduct.
Hon. Tobun Abiodun chairman house committee works and infrastructure noted that the act brings to bare the non chalant attitude of Fulani herdsmen in the country, as they most time discountenance the laws that bars them from indulging in such act.
” I see it as a ploy to cause public disorder on the part of the nomadic cattle rearers, I have seen them wield AK 47 while guarding their livestock on the roads this is uncalled for they most times don’t care about what the law says”.
ALSO SEE: Building collapse: Lagos halts Lekki Gardens’ construction
Hon. Olumuyiwa Jimoh the Deputy Majority Leader in his own view on the matter stressed that, ” we need not take this matter with levity, I saw them on Mobil road at Apapa, they also have a private abbatoir at Ashanti Barracks where animals are illegally butchered, something drastic need be done to address the issue”.
Hon. Dayo Saka-Fafunmi Chairman Environment committee stressed that, ” we need to halt this development as Hausas rearing this cattle are not bound by our laws, they indiscriminately violates the laws, there are lands with grazing areas in Badagry and Epe with less vehicular traffic they should make do with that, they need be stopped before the unexpected happens”.
The Majority leader moves that the house call on the Governor, to call on the security operatives to attend to the livestock management units to be mindful of development, urging that the Federal Government should also be briefed too.
The Speaker Rt.Hon Mudashiru Obasa ruled that it is unheard of that cattle are grazed on the roads.
“A lot of dangers had arouse due to the act, lots of people are maimed and killed, former Nigerian goalkeeper Dosu Joseph and Chief Olu Falae were victims.
” We should tame it before it goes virile, the livestock managing body and farms should halt illegal conducts of the herdsmen,the Federal Government should also do something about this”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment