Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
The viability of sporting activities especially the round leather game of soccer to the economy of Lagos was again highlighted, as stakeholders in the state eulogize former governor, Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
The assessment was made by the state’s Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode during a novelty match held at the mini Campus stadia in the Lagos Island, in recognition of the great feats of the politically sagacious Tinubu and in commemoration 64th birthday over the weekend.
Ambode lauds Tinubu’s large heart and self worth, harping on the need to appreciate him for his forthright and thoughtful approach to the governance of Lagos, which in his view has brought great feats.
According the number one man in the state, the novelty match between the Lagos State executives versus ex-international footballers was topical given the personality in whose honour it was organized, the Ashiwaju of the world for being selfless and kindhearted. He allowed my predecessor to take charge of the state after him as well influenced my emergence.
“This match which witnessed display of great skills of ex-internationals will go a long to serve impetus for me being a lover of sport than anyone of them can imagine to do more in the area of sport, Lagos will witness some big change in sport in the next few months”.
ALSO SEE: APC leader Tinubu emerges Thinkers Magazine’s 2015 Man of the Year
The birthday boy who turned 64 today in his response noted that the diverse nature of the country is well depicted there, with individuals like Peter Rufai, Ike Shorunmu, Joseph Yobo and many more played themselves out in his honour.
In his words the elated Tinubu stressed that, “Kachikwu Umar all the way from Maiduguri and a whole lot of dignitaries from Ogun state, Federal House of Representatives, the Senate and more are today speaks volume of a Nigeria so diverse, cohesive and bound together to promote what is good in Lagos, i have enjoyed my evening, what you’ve done today is to rekindle our spirit in sport and increase its economic value.
“To our former internationals you have demonstrated the spirit of Lagos diversity and this will develop the youths as you are row models to them in the state, soccer is part of us and has transformed into economic strength for many, as you have honoured me God will honour you”.
The match ended 2-1 as the ex-internationals proved their worth beating the state excos.
Prince Falade Oyekan one of the brain behind the novelty match, while eulogizing the celebrant, noted that his was a replica of Nelson Mandela, praying for long life and more grace for further attainments at higher pedestals in the world.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment