Share this on WhatsApp




By Lanre Adesanya
Stakeholders in Makoko Community has call on the Lagos state government, to as a matter of urgency afford employment opportunities and empowerment to the teeming youths and graduates in the community, to further halt restiveness.
The call was made by the organizing chairman of Maiden Makoko Day celebration, Chief S. Kayode Bamidele, at a media briefing to herald the week long programme, from 21st to 27th March,2016.
Chief Bamidele maintained that though some areas in Makoko had been favoured by government, with respect to infrastructural development,much more need be done to further stem the tide of youth restiveness, through gainful employment .
He stressed that, “There are graduates here, I plead with government to carry us along with regards to jobs for our youths, we need employment for our graduates, empowerment of our artisans is also important government should come and help us.
ALSO SEE: Mile 12: Kids scale school fence to escape attackers
“While appreciating our government we are still calling on the government to provide our community with health centre,secondary school, and construction of bridge that link Adam Manuel street, Makoko with Ishola Street at (Alagomeji) which will serve as alternative traffic Road from Herbert Macaulay Road to Oyadiran,Iwaya, and Akoka etc.”
He also noted that Makoko formerly branded a troubled zone, has turned a new leaf with good neighbourliness now prevalent, as youths and old foes, now relates seamlessly.
Lined up for the week long programme includes; prayer session, courtesy call on motherless/old people’s homes,presentation of GCE forms and other gifts, health walk,environmental sanitation, seminars and career talk,games and musical concert.
Mrs. Ajoke Olaoye also a  stakeholder,noted that lack of gainful employment for youths remain the main cause of wrong perception of Makoko by the outsiders,”it’s a new dawn here now all warring camps have become friends”.
“There are graduates here, I plead with government to carry us along with regards to jobs for our youths, we need employment for our graduates, empowerment of our artisans is also important government should come and help us”. She stated.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment