From ADIELE GOSPEL, Umuahia
THE Senator, representing Abia North senatorial district in the re-run election for Abia North District, Senator Mao Ohuabunwa, has described his victory at the poll as a clear manifestation of his popularity among his people. Sen. Mao who stated this shortly after his declaration as the winner of the re-run election promised to ensure effort representation of his people at the senate enjoin his opponents to put behind their problem and work for the progress of Abia North zone and the state in general.
In His Own Reaction, The Returning Agent For PPA,Dr Madukwe Ukaegbu said “I Saw The Same Man Who Said There Will Be a Rerun announcing the result, and describe it as mockery of democracy.”
ALSO SEE: Abia North rerun: Orji Kalu bounces back
Also speaking, the Abia State People Democratic Party (PDP) Chairman, Senator Emma Nwaka has expressed satisfaction over the conduct of the rerun election last Saturday.
While appreciated party supporters and the electorates for returning Senator Mao Ohuabunwa through their ballot, Senator Nwaka noted the victory had further indicated that Abia North and Abia State as a whole was truly a PDP state and urged the losers to join hands with Senator Ohuabunwa to move Abia North forward.
Meanwhile, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) member representing Umuahia South State constituency who took part in the last Saturday’s rerun Hon Chijioke Nwachukwu has thanked the peopleof his constituency for their supports in re-elected him back to Abia State House of Assembly.
Speaking with Nigerian Tribune in his country home Ubakala on Monday, Hon. Chijioke Nwachukwu said God and the people of his constituency has justify his collective mandate given him on the April 2015 Generalm Election.
He said with the victory so far, distraction was now over and he is looking forward for better representation aimed at bringing the much needed dividend of democracy close to his people and sponsor bills that will bring over all development of the state as a whole.

			
			Post Views: 
			70