By Ediale Kingsley
Only few knew the singer called Nomoreloss (Muyiwa Osinuga) had almost countless songs. Radios and TV stations has been playing his songs nonstop since he passed on.
Another thing most fans may also not know or remember is that aside his songs and contribution to the entertainment industry, he was also a family man. In 2008 Nomoreloss tied the knot with Rhythm 93.7 FM OAP Phoenix Child (Adeola Osinuga) in what he described as an unconventional wedding, ‘’For anyone that knows the both of us, they will know we don‘t do things in a conventional manner. I don‘t like stereotypes; I like to do something different. And that‘s what Nomoreloss and Phoenix are all about. We are not trying to blend in; we are trying to stand out’’ He spoke about their wedding back in 2008. 
On January 15, 2011 they welcomed their daughter Mo Osinuga.  Nomoreloss also was a happy step father to Phoenix’s son ( that she had many years before marrying Nomoreloss).
The Multi-talented singer and comedian, known for his hit songs, ‘Iyawo Asiko’ and ‘Let Them Say” died at an undisclosed hospital in Opebi, Lagos. The talented singer was said to have been diagnosed with Typhoid fever. Confirming the news of his death, the singer’s manager, Joyce Ize Iyamu said: “The news is true, but I don’t have all the details yet.
The family will make an official statement disclosing what happened.” Although the cause of his death is yet to be ascertained, a source close to the deceased said, he has been sick since the beginning of the year. Nomoreloss hit the limelight in 2002, after he featured in Ruggedman’s classic cut ‘Ehen’. Prior to that, he was a presenter on the music TV show ‘Groovoidz.’ In 2006, he released his debut album, ‘Let Them Say’, and in 2015, he released his ‘Grass to Grace’ song. He wrote Jaywon’s hit song, ‘This Year’, in 2012. In 2014, he dropped the albums; ‘Standing’, and ‘Then and Now.’ Many of his colleagues have been expressing their condolences through their social media handles. He will be greatly remembered for his priceless role as the coordinator of the Save OJB Campaign during OJB’s kidney crisis.
ALSO SEE: Psquare has fallen!
Bright Okpocha, aka Basket Mouth, had this to say about the departed enigma, “It was 16 years ago I met you for the 1st time, full of humour, energy music, kindness and life. Today….that life is gone, but one thing that will never go or die is the memory of you, your legacy and what you represented. I learnt a lot from you bro.”
Funke Akindele, aka Jenifa, also dropped her condolences, “Sad! May his soul RIP. May the Lord be with his loved ones”
“Sad to hear that Nomoreloss is dead. Even if his music is unwanted by an average Nigerian, his legacy stands on!” Tweeted @Deyneeji.
“The news of Nomoreloss passing is sad. Such a powerful name. Such a powerful voice” said @ineffablewaters
“ Leaving On A Jet Plane-Nomoreloss…Deep Deep Song” @1MaturedMind tweeted.
“ Sad news about Nomoreloss. Very warm and talented pioneer. I pray Gods comfort for his family and loved ones. Rest in peace” Lami Phillips prayed.
And Waje also prayed thus, “Please pray for Phoenix, that God gives the strength to hang on Rip nomoreloss this is sad”.
“No way, No more Loss in our industry. My brother, my friend, may God rest his Soul in Paradise”, cried Sound Sultan.
 

			
			PV: 
			0