Seeks International intervention on election monitoring 



By NWADIKE UGOCHUKWU, Port Harcourt 
In the heated build up to Saturday, March 19, re-run elections in Rivers State, leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have raised alarm that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is relying on the members access to the Federal Government to rig the elections this weekend. PDP leaders, accordingly, declared that they have uncovered a list of ad-hoc electoral officers, who include returning officers, polling officers and other staff, compiled by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), completely made up of active APC card-carrying members.



The party further disclosed the discovery of the plot by APC to print ballot papers and result sheets to rig the elections on Saturday.

The PDP, therefore, called on INEC not to use the list for the re-run election as it will
compromise the standard of the election.

The PDP revealed that APC has brought into Rivers State from Lagos a printing press called
‘Sam Printing Press’ which will be used in printing all printable sensitive and non sensitive electoral materials for the re-run elections in the state; it added that APC members have been assigned and are to be lodged in a hotel in Port Harcourt and Owerri, Imo State, to fill the result sheets with already decided scores that could be announced by a compromised INEC official at the stipulated time.

ALSO SEE: APC will ensure interests of Rivers people are protected — Abe


PDP noted that APC candidates and supporters are not campaigning to mobilize support for votes, attributing to the plot to rig.  “The apparent relaxed mood of APC leaders and candidates not to carry out serious campaigns in the state is a confirmation of their plot to rig the elections with the aid of the military, armed youths in camouflage military uniforms and fake results,” PDP declared.

The Party also noted that the coming of the APC Acting National Chairman, Chief Segun Oni, to Rivers State was part of the grand plot to rig the elections, ignite crisis in the state. “The APC has resolved not to spare anything to chance but to use the federal might and illegal means to secure all the elective seats in the elections,” PDP stated.

The PDP warned all APC leaders and members to have a re-think on their plan to rig or manipulate the elections as all of such efforts will be in futility. 

The Party reiterated its disposition for free and fair elections, warning that any efforts aimed at rigging the March 19 re-run elections in the state will be resisted by the masses.

ALSO SEE: Rerun Election: PDP uncovers plots by APC to militarize Rivers

It further called on the security agencies, particularly the Police to be on alert and to checkmate the activities of the APC in the State.

The PDP also sought the support of the international community to prevail on the leadership of the APC and the federal government not to militarize the state during or after the election, and that INEC staff should be neutral in carrying out their election duties.

			
			PV: 
			0