By NWADIKE UGOCHUKWU, Port Harcourt
 
Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of Operations, Sotonye Leroy Wakama, has warned Rivers politicians who want to instigate violence during the re-run election in Rivers State. He urged the leaders of various political parties in the state to abide by the laws of the land. He cautioned that anyone caught in any act of violence will be arrested and persecuted accordingly.

Sotonye Leroy Wakama disclosed this while addressing stakeholders of the various political parties at a meeting in Port Harcourt. He told the political leaders that Police have in their custody one Anthony Ugoh who was arrested in connection with the murder of Frank Obi and two other members of his family.

ALSO SEE: Rivers rerun: INEC recruited APC members as Electoral Officers – PDP

Wakama also decried the high level of killing of innocent citizens in Rivers State; “we must realize that violence is never and will never be a solution to any problem,” he noted; adding that “the Police will stop at nothing to bring to book the perpetrators of recent killings in Rivers State.”

Wakama disclosed that the Police have arrested one Ndubuisi Tochi, and Luke Okomebi on the allegation of killing of Mr. Ofinijite Amachree and Gostime Ifuvoiyala, and they are under interrogation.

The DIG said that Asintion Jacknch and Ipalibo Jackson, Destiny Lawson and Godknows Cotterel have been charged to court on seven count charge before the magistrate court 14 in Port Harcourt.

He stated that the suspects were arrested at Buguma after a coordinated raid by the Police where AK47 rifle and other offensive weapons were recovered from the hoodlums.
Wakama said that other suspects who are now at large, including one Soboma Jackrich has been declared wanted by the Police. He appealed for continued and sustained support and cooperation of the members of the public by way of credible and timely information to enable the Police discharge their constitutional mandate of protecting lives and properties.

He assured the readiness of Police to provide adequate security during the re-run election while calling on INEC to conduct free and fair and credible election, warning that anybody that come with cutlass or gun to cause trouble would be apprehended.

			
			PV: 
			0