AS the home of everything Apple, iStore said it is proud to continue its efforts in making the latest Apple products available to customers.
iPad Pro, Apple’s most expansive and productive tablet, is now available at iStore.
The iPad Pro has a large 12.9-inch Retina display, nearly double the CPU performance of iPad Air 2 and refined Multi Touch technology.
With 5.6 million pixels, iPad Pro features the highest-resolution Retina display of any iOS device. The 12.9-inch screen makes everything you do editing 4K video, designing presentations, running a business easier, faster and more engaging.
iPad Pro has a slim and light design, it’s just 6.9 mm thin and weighs just over 700g. It’s available in silver, gold and space grey from N240 000.‎
IStore will also offer the new range of iPad Pro Apple accessories namely the revolutionary Apple Pencil, Apple Smart Keyboard and Smart Covers.
ALSO SEE: Samsung unveils Galaxy S7 Edge and Galaxy S7 to redefine the mobile experience
The Apple Pencil uses incredibly sensitive pressure and tilt sensors to instantly recognize when you are pressing harder or shifting its angle.
Apple’s iPad Pro Smart Keyboard combines an array of new technologies and materials to create a keyboard like no other.
It’s a full-size keyboard that’s fully portable, and connects to iPad Pro with the Smart Connector, an innovative new interface that allows for a two-way exchange of power and data.
Finally the Smart Cover, which folds into different positions, creates a versatile stand for reading, typing, or watching videos.
All accessories are sold separately.
Additionally, when you buy from iStore, you get access to exclusive benefits like free training, free setup, and free technical support as well as have access to the trade-in offer that will allow you to make the most out of your previously loved iPad. ‎
Kolapo Agunloye, iStore Manager, said that \’As the home of everything Apple, iStore is proud to continue its efforts in making the latest Apple products available to customers. iPad Pro, Apple’s most expansive and productive tablet, is now available at iStore.‎
Trade in your iPad and use the redeemable value toward a new Apple product. You can trade in up to 2 devices for even greater savings. ‎
iStore is an Apple Authorised Reseller (AAR) which is a dedicated hub for Apple products and accessories. With 23 stores situated across Africa, iStore is the largest dedicated Apple retailer in Africa.
iStore aims to maximise customer value offerings by providing an authentic Apple experience and offering customers exclusive services such as in- store complimentary training, technical support, and technical setup.
iStore is also a certified service centre and can service any Apple product that is purchased from an authorised reseller in country under warranty. ‎

			
			Post Views: 
			114