Share this on WhatsApp



ECOBANK Transnational Incorporated, parent company of the Ecobank Group has announced the appointment of Mrs. Laurence do Rego as Group Executive of Commercial Banking.
Mrs. do Rego whose appointment takes effect from the 1st of May has played a critical role in supporting the growth of the Ecobank Group from twelve countries to the scale and breadth that it enjoys today with a presence in 40 countries.
She has been part of the team that led Ecobank’s expansion into East and Southern Africa, including its acquisition of Oceanic Bank as part of its Nigeria subsidiary strategy.
According to the Chairman of the Group’s Board of Directors, Mr. Emmanuel Ikazoboh, Do Rego has made a good contribution to the success of the business, and where Ecobank is today.
“The Commercial Banking business that she will be leading is also an important business for the continued success of the Group, and we look forward to her bringing the same level of professionalism to take this business to its highest potential.”
ALSO SEE: Forex scarcity: Stanbic IBTC, Ecobank, others cut customers’ foreign spending
Ecobank Group CEO Ade Ayeyemi echoed Mr. Ikazoboh’s commendation of Mrs. do Rego.
“I agree with the Chairman and take this opportunity to thank Laurence for her financial leadership over the last fourteen years at Ecobank. For eleven of these, she has led the function through the growing phase of the institution. I am confident that she will bring the same dedication and leadership to our Commercial Banking business.”
Commenting on her new appointment, Laurence do Rego said: “After 14 years of being part of a team with strong and talented finance professionals, I leave the function with mixed emotions. The team that I have worked with, and have also had the privilege of leading, is the best talent I could ever have hoped for.
A woman of conviction and principles, she joined Ecobank in 2002 as Financial Controller
for the Group’s Benin subsidiary. She was later appointed Financial Controller for parent company ETI and became the Group’s Chief Financial Officer in 2005.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment