OVER 15,000 teenagers received salvation at CE Lagos Zone 1 Teens Conference. As Pastor Lanre Afolabi made the alter call after a powerful message on the ‘mind’, the multitudes of teenagers trooped out to yield themselves to the God of the message they just heard.
The Christ Embassy Lagos Zone 1 Teenagers’ Conference featuring impartation discourse, debates, games, dance, music and lots more held on March 26th, 2016, at the prestigious Loveworld Convocation Arena, Lagos Nigeria. It was an unmatched program and the glorious presence of the Holy Spirit was evident. “Without a doubt, the 30,000 plus attendees were irreversibly impacted, and, in the blessed words of the Man of God, Rev Chris “…the fruits will continue for a very long time” said one of the teen’s coordinator, Rotimi Sodeinde.
The Teenagers started arriving before the 12pm schedule and despite the fuel scarcity challenge; they were unperturbed as they thronged in continuous stream into the LCA Auditorium, in their beautiful colored program Tee shirts. The well-organized Transportation plan involving lots of buses was symptomatic of the excellent organization that typified all aspects of the Program.
The Program started around 1pm with an opening ministration by the Teens’ Mass Choir, and for the next 5 hours, an inspiring sequence of activities and ministrations unfolded, each one taking the Teenagers to a higher level of excitement and impartation.
ALSO SEE: Night of Bliss: Pastor Olayemi asks believers not to lose faith in Christ
The School Debate segment was truly remarkable as the 13 Finalists that emerged from the preliminary rounds that held across the Zone the past few weeks, amazed everyone with their insightful discourse. The well-delivered points from their anointed minds were a call to action for all in attendance, and much content was created which will be harnessed and projected in the days ahead.
The Talent Discovery segment also “discovered” several new Creative Arts groups with potential to become global Ministry stars. The most promising of them will be groomed with care and diligence, to contribute to the unending stream of gifted Artistes birthed in our BLW Nation.
The climax of the Program was the short but impactful ministration of the Word by the Zonal Director, Pastor Lanre Alabi, who reminded the Teenagers of the last episode of the Teen’s Conference, where he recapitulates the highlighted 3 important virtues for greatness and leadership. He however dwelled on the ‘Mind’. The Teenagers took it all in with rapt attention, and after the message the Teenagers eagerly received the shared book from Pastor Chris Oyakhilome-Power Of The Mind. It after this section that the all important altar- call was made, more than 15000 Teenagers came forward to receive salvation. It was a glorious sight to behold. All New Converts were given a ROR Bible special gift. It was also a good sign of growth for the Teenage Conference program that recorded 2,500 new converts in 2014’s edition.
ALSO SEE: Night of Bliss Ghana: Pastor Chris exposes satanic tactics, deceptions
The next segment of the Program was the announcement of winners in the Debate and Creative Arts Competitions. It was an uphill task for the esteemed Panel of Judges to differentiate between the excellent presentations. All Participants received plaques and mementoes for their participation, while the Top Three received exciting cash prizes and gifts. Also 13 Schools, which participated in the External Schools Debate a week earlier, were awarded prizes at the Conference. The prizes included smart devices for the individuals and plaque/trophy/gifts for the Schools (Computers, Generator and Library Books).
The Conference ended at about 6:10pm, and without doubt, an irreversible momentum of leadership and success had been birthed in all Attendees, and which will continue to yield ever increasing results in the days ahead. Thousands of the May Teevo was also distributed, to keep the Attendees soaked in the word on a daily basis.
The fruits and impact of the Zonal Teenagers’ Conference 2014 will be fully harnessed as the glory of God continues to spread amongst the participants.

			
			Post Views: 
			268