By OKOSUN DENNIS
The fight that erupted Thursday morning at the Mile 12 market has led to the killing of no fewer than four people at the market.
It was gathered that a huge fight broke out this morning following a clash between the Yoruba traders and their Hausa counterparts at the market.
It was gathered that the fight started two nights ago when a motorbike rider riding on one-way knocked down a pedestrian. It was further learnt that the rider who was said to be Hausa man hit a Yoruba person leading to a fight as the rider refused to take the victim to the hospital for treatment.
Soldiers on Operation Mesha and men of the Nigerian police force have been deployed to quell the fight.
Businesses have been grounded; banks within the area hurriedly closed as the Lagos state government have temporarily shut down the market.
ALSO SEE: Hausa, Yoruba traders clash at Mile 12 market
A witness who spoke to National Daily on phone said the traders are engaging one another, using cutlasses, guns and other offensive weapons and burning down the market stalls.
“As I am speaking to you, people are running for safety. I am trapped in my car as I almost drove into the fight. Please, call the police and army to rescue the situation. They are shooting guns and using cutlasses to machete people. It is a very serious situation,” he explained.
It was also learnt that the Lagos state Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni is at the Agiliti area trying to have meeting with the market leaders with a view to calming all the aggrieved nerves and restore peace.
When contacted, the Lagos state Police spokesperson Superintendent Dolapo Badmos, said that the police was on “top of the situation as they are about meeting with the market leaders with a view to ascertaining the circumstances that led to the fight.
She could not disclose whether anyone was killed or has been arrested but added that in the course of the day, the police will make a statement on the developments and number of culprits arrested.
 

			
			PV: 
			0