Condemns harassment of PDP members by APC-Government

The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the end of the 69th National Executive Committee (NEC) Meeting of the party, this Monday, at the National Secretariat, Abuja, issued a communiqué giving details of the timetable for its national convention and state congresses.

According to the communiqué signed by Senator Ali-Modu Sherriff, Professor Adewale Olapido, National Chairman and National Secretary, respectively, the National Executive Committee (NEC) in its 69th meeting deliberated on critical issues as they relate to the party and the nation, and resolved as follows.

A. Party Congresses and National Convention;
NEC approved the time-table for the party’s Congresses and National Convention. Congresses commence onSaturday, April 23, 2016, and culminate in the National Convention on Saturday, May 21, 2016.

NEC approved the party’s Guidelines for Congresses and the National Convention. National Convention holds in Port Harcourt, Rivers State.

ALSO SEE: PDP foils plot to return Jonathan

NEC after exhaustive deliberations approved the extension of the tenure of office of all organs of the party at all levels until the conduct of Congresses and National Convention. This is, however, with the exception of Edo and Ondo States.

NEC approved the setting up of four special committees in preparation for the National Convention. They are National Convention Committee, Reconciliation Committee, Zoning Committee and Finance Committee.

B. Erosion of Fundamental Human Rights and Harassment of Opposition in Nigeria.
NEC considered the erosion of fundamental human rights and constitutionally guaranteed personal liberty of Nigeria, especially, key leaders of the PDP by the APC-led Federal Government and resolved as follows:

Condemned the incessant harassment, maltreatment and unlawful incarceration of PDP leaders at various levels by Government controlled law enforcement and prosecution agencies.

Condemned the Friday, March 4, 2016 invasion and raiding of Ekiti State House of Assembly and subsequent arrest and continued detention of four PDP members of the House by the
Directorate of State Services (DSS) on trumped-up charges.


Demanded the immediate and unconditional release of the four PDP members of the Ekiti House of Assembly by the DSS.

ALSO  SEE: EFCC arrests Secondus…Ekweremadu, Akpabio likely to be picked says PDP

Resolved to stand in solidarity with all Nigerians whose fundamental rights as citizens are being infringed upon by the Federal Government.

Called on the international community and all civil rights organizations world-wide to take note of the denial of fundamental human rights, abuse of liberties and freedom of individuals; and the rapid descent of Nigeria into totalitarianism.

NEC also condoled with the families of its 18 members who were brutally murdered in Ogoni land in Rivers state as well as with the Federal Government and the Government of Kogi State over the unfortunate death of the late Minister of state for Labour, Barr. James Ocholi, and resolved to send a high-powered delegation to condole with his family.

NEC in session also congratulated all its members who won in their rerun elections, including former Senate President, Senator David Mark.

			
			Post Views: 
			66