Share this on WhatsApp



RELIGIOUS organizations are planning to reject a bill for law to substitute the Kaduna State Religious Preaching Law, 1984 sent to the House of Assembly by Governor Nasir Ahmad Elrufai.
Officials of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Jama’atu Nasril-Islam in Kaduna reporters that the bill was sent to the house without consultation adding that even though they have sent an input to the lawmakers as requested, there is need for a public hearing.
“We have submitted our input but the mistake they made was that they did not consult the stakeholders. They would have call people together to discuss the bill before sending it to the house” Kaduna State JNI Secretary, Ibrahim Kufena said.
He said many people have not gone through the bill but are making unfavorable comments.
“Unfortunately, the State Assembly would have told the people that they are going to amend the bill. But the impression they gave us was that the bill is seeking for a new law. But we have such since 1984.”
ALSO SEE: Uneasy calm in Presidency as Shehu Sani alleges El-Rufai’s plot to remove Buhari
“From 1984 when the law was enacted in 1987, during Dangiwa Umar, it was amended. In 1996, Col Hamid Ali also amended it. But people have to be sensitized and that is the mistake the government made. But we have written our comment to them” Kufena added.
He said since 1984, the government did not implement the law and could not setup the committee adding, “JNI is rejecting the 8pm time fixed for us not to undertake religious activities in the designated places.”
“The State House of Assembly should call for a public hearing. And the state government should put that on hold all processes concerning the bill and organize a public rearing” Kufena added.
Speaking to reporters on the issue, Secretary, CAN, Kaduna State Chapter, Dr Sunday Ibrahim said if the State House of Assembly did not call for public hearing, the bill if it becomes law, will not be acceptable to the masses.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment