Share this on WhatsApp
STANBIC IBTC bank said it has expanded the Biometric Verification Number registration process for its customers at designated centres across the world.
According to the bank, a member of Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc. the move is to ensure its customers overseas are not denied access to their accounts and other financial services in Nigeria.
Stanbic IBTC Bank assured its customers that efforts have been made to ensure that the registration is easy, providing information on available enrollment points. The bank assured its customers that efforts have been made to ensure that the registration is easy, providing information on available enrollment points.
“It is our desire to ensure that no customer is denied access to their accounts or other financial services as a result of failure to do the BVN enrolment, which is why we are doing everything possible to speed up the registration process by providing relevant information and support to account holders who live abroad,” Mr Babatunde Macaulay, Executive Director, Personal and Business Banking, Stanbic IBTC Bank, said.
The bank said enrollment centre in the United Kingdom are in London, Leicester and Manchester; Dubai; Johannesburg and Cape Town in South Africa; Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia; Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou in China; Jeddah, Riyadh and Al Khobar in Saudi Arabia. In the United States, the centres are in Atlanta, Houston, San Francisco and Los Angeles. In Canada, there are centres in Toronto and Vancouver; Paris in France; Rome in Italy; Sao Paulo in Brazil; Ankara in Turkey; Kiev in Ukraine; New Delhi in India; Moscow in Russia; Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney in Australia.
ALSO SEE: Budget deficit: FG plans to raise N1.884 trillion
BVN is a scheme introduced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to provide adequate security for transactions in the Nigerian banking system. The registration process involves collection of biometric data and relevant information of customers of Deposit Money Banks (DMBs). The BVN is linkable to all bank accounts operated by respective customers.
The registration deadline for customers in Nigeria was October 31, 2015. However, the CBN extended the deadline for BVN enrollment for non-resident Nigerian bank customers to 30th June 2016.
According to guidelines provided by the CBN, the BVN enrollment can be done at offshore branches of any Nigerian bank and through the service centres of Online Integrated Solutions (OIS) and VFS Global, two service providers that manage visa and passport issuance-related administrative tasks.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment