Share this on WhatsApp



By IFEOMA IKEM
AFTER a 50-man robbery gangs stormed Festac Town in 2015 carting away several millions of naira from some new generation banks, the Lagos Police Command has made a commitment to deal ruthlessly with any robbery gang that attempts to attack any bank within its area of jurisdiction.
The Lagos State Command on the 16th March, 2016 fulfilled its promise by snuffing life out of 11 robbers who attempted to storm a bank at Seme in a Commando-like fashion.
In an operation led by the Commissioner of Police, CP Fatai Owoseni, The Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team and officers from Nigeria Customs, Seme border, led by their Comptroller, Mr V. Dimka in partnership with Police operatives from Benin Republic have foiled an attempt by a 17-man gang of armed robbers to attack banks and financial institutions in Seme.
The Lagos State Police boss, Fatai Owoseni who revealed how they performed the magic feet at the weekend in his office, explained how the combined security agencies swooped on them.
ALSO SEE: 100 policemen escape death in Rivers
Fatai said that about 2300hrs on last week, the hoodlums numbering 17 and in three flying boats navigated the water ways and appeared at the border of Nigeria and Republic of Benin waterway. They were said to be confronted by the combined security forces who were acting on intelligence reports of the intention to lay siege on the area and rob some commercial banks. In the process, the police engaged them in fierce gun duel and repelled them.
Not able to contain the superior firepower of the security operatives, the robbers made an attempt to escape by jumping into the waters abandoning their boats, but not after they had lost eleven of their men while others escaped with bullet injuries.
It was learnt that a search conducted on the abandoned boat led to the recovery of a total of 2, 757 live ammunition, one AK 47 rifle, dynamites and other explosives. Also include six magazines, eight life jackets, two jerry cans of 100 litres and three jerry cans of 50 litres of fuel respectively.
The recovered boat with an inscription of Castina Marine is currently in the custody of the Beninoise Marine Division.
Fatai reiterates the command’s commitment to the protection of lives and properties adding that the Lagos Police under his command would do everything possible to combat the all forms of crime and criminal tendencies by any miscreant.
He commended the general public who volunteered information that contributed to the success of nipping the in the bud the antics of the robbers assuring that they would do their best to fish out the fleeing robbers. Three of the dead robbers were brought to the state command as evidence while others were dumped in the morgue.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment