Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
Kennedy Uzoka is set to resume as the new Group Managing Director of the United Bank for Africa with effect from August 1st following the approval by the Board of Directors of the bank.
Mr. Uzoka who will succeed Phillips Oduoza, who retires on July 31, 2016, after two terms of leading the UBA Group must also get the approval of the Central Bank of Nigeria before the appointment can be ratified.
Uzoka, a graduate of mechanical Engineering from the University of Benin and Master’s Degree in Business Administration from the University of Lagos has most recently been leading the transformation agenda of the Bank, after returning from completing the Advanced Management Programme of Harvard Business School.
ALSO SEE: Customers to boycott banks today over excessive charges
Prior to his sabbatical at Harvard, Mr Uzoka served as Deputy Managing Director, UBA group and was also the CEO of UBA Africa, responsible for the Group’s operations in 18 countries across Africa.
Also appointed, was Victor Osadolor as the Deputy Managing Director, UBA Group. Mr Osadolor brings a strong finance and risk background, having previously served as the Executive Director, Risk and Finance at UBA. Mr Osadolor also held the position of Chief Strategy Officer at Ecobank Transnational Incorporation. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Accountants of Nigeria. He also holds the Advanced Management Programme Certificate from the Harvard Business School.
The Chairman of UBA Group Mr. Tony Elumelu said of both appointments:
According to Chairman of the UBA Group, Tony Elumelu, Uzoka brings an extremely strong skill set and is ideally positioned to lead UBA in its next phase of growth. “I have no doubt that both he and Victor with their expertise and depth of business experience will ensure that the Bank is best positioned to deliver on its strategic ambition,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment