Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
The Lagos State House of Assembly on Thursday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to resuscitate War Against Indiscipline (WAI) to restore orderliness, sanity and discipline in the country.
This call followed the joint motion moved by Hon. Lanre Ogunyemi, the Chairman, House Committee on Education and seconded by Hon. Yinka Ogundimu, the Chairman, House Committee on Finance.
The lawmakers decries the break down of law and order, urge for a come back of the 1984 programme,32 years after the introduction of War Against Indiscipline (WAI), targeted at restoring good behaviour and sanity in the society.
Ogunyemi said the programme would help build the culture of cleanliness, humility, dutifulness, honesty among others in the country.
“There is no more sanity in the society, people don’t see anything bad in evil and indiscipline again. Abnormal things  have become normal in our society,” he said.
The lawmaker highlighted some of the indiscipline acts to include, defecation in open space, street fighting, disobedience to traffic lights, littering roads, blocking of drainages with waste, failure to use pedestrians bridges, beating of security operatives among others.
Ogunyemi called on the Federal Government to support the security agencies to ensure that Nigerians behave responsibly in the society.
Also speaking, Ogundimu said, “Indiscipline has taken over the society, what were considered abnormal before are regarded as normal. We are now not disciplined”.
ALSO SEE: Lagos Assembly poise to halt Fulani herdsmen nuisance on state roads
Another lawmaker, Hon.Abiodun Tobun, the Chairman, House Committee on Works and Infrastructure said, ” there is no more fear in the heart of our people and this makes everyone to be indiscipline.”
Tobun called on all the security operatives to lead the discipline campaign and be alive to their responsibilities.
In his ruling, the Speaker of the House, Rt.Hon. Mudashiru Obasa described the loss of orderliness as ‘shameful’ and called on Buhari to resuscitate the programme.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment