Share this on WhatsApp



Nosa Eresoyen, Asaba
Piqued by alleged nefarious military activities in Ovrer-Eku community
Ethiope East local government Area of Delta State, law makers at the
State House of Assembly on Tuesday at the plenary session urged
President Mohammadu Buhari as a matter of urgency to intervene in the
activities of the military invasion to Ovrer-Eku community.
In a letter addressed to the president, a copy made available to our
correspondent, was signed by the speaker of the House, Mr. Monday
Agbuya and member representing Ethiope East constituency, Mr. Evance
Ivwurie.
Part of the letter reads: “Mr. President, we urge you to carry out any
investigation into the ugly incident of unlawful and illegal invasion,
massacre and occupation of Ovrer Eku community in Ethiope East Local
Government Area of Delta State by soldiers attached to Presco Plc”.
The house also in a separate matter, called on the State Governor, Dr.
Ifeanyi Okowa, and relevant security agencies to monitor the
activities of Fulani cattle rearers’ nefarious atrocities in the
state.
But motion several to matters of urgent public importance were moved
by members representing Ethiope East Constituency, Mr. Evance Ivwurie
and the minority leader representing Ika South Constituency, Mr.
Festus Okoh and were seconded by Azuka Azaka and Daniel Yingi
respecting.
In the motions, the members raised the alarm in the nefarious
activities of the Fulani herdsmen in their constituencies, noting that
residents of the areas, especially housewives, live in the fear of the
unknown and called on Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to set up a committee to
look into the ugly trend.
While urging Mr. President to help fish out the soldiers allegedly
involved in the dastardly act of massacre and as led by one Lt.
Oworobo and bring same to book, the lawmakers who spoke differently
said: “Mr. President we urge you to wade into the dastardly massacre
perpetrated by the military invasion to Ovrer Eku community, our
people are under serious threats, massacre and dehumanization”.
ALSO SEE: Tension mounts over military invasion of Delta community
Meanwhile, the lawmakers have urged the Edo State Governor Adams
Oshimhole, the palace of the Oba of Benin, Presco Plc and Newcross
Petroleum Limited to desist from further annexing, claiming and
colonizing the Delta State community at Ovrer Eku community at Ovrer
Eku in Ethiope East local Government Area of the State.
Noting with dismay that the community was renamed to Iwevbo as part of
Orhomwon Local Government of Edo State and Benin Kingdom.
The lawmakers in their motion directed that Presco Plc and its
chairman, Mr. Paul Ogbebor to return one Mama Alice Agbemrehwue
Omadete 87 years allegedly beaten up by the soldiers attached to
Presco Plc and tens of motorcycles and bicycles carted away by the
soldiers.
The lawmakers further called on Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to prevail on
Mr. President to direct the national boundary commission and other
relevant ministries/agencies saddled with the responsibilities of
boundary adjustment in Nigeria to determine the boundaries between Edo
and Delta State, especially in Ovrer Eku community renamed to Iwevbo
with a view to finding a lasting solution to the perennial dispute so
as to present further re-occurrence and breakdown of law and order.
Speaking to our correspondent Mr. Evance Ivwurie, member representing
Ethiope East Constituency, said occupants in Ovrer Eku community are
native of Urhobo under Agbon Kingdom, adding that they have lived the
community for over 500 years and wondered why the Edo State Government
could suddenly claim that the community belongs to Edo State due to
the discovery of crude oil in the area.
He therefore, called on the relevant stakeholders to investigate the
matter in order to bring the perpetrators of the crime to Justice.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment