Share this on WhatsApp



By FUNSO OMODELEOLA
THE much awaited Night of Bliss holds in the ancient city of Benin, Edo State, this Friday. The event is an all night Christian meeting being organized by Christ Embassy, Benin Zone 1, and is hosted by Pastor Moses Olayemi.
Report reaching National Daily indicates that there is excitement in the City of Benin as members of the Christ Embassy Benin Zone 1 continued their aggressive publicity, extending invitation to residents of the state capital and neighbouring towns, which have practically stirred so much faith and hunger in the hearts and minds of those already invited.
Addressing members of his congregation in a recent prayer rally at the weekend in preparation for the epoch making event, Pastor Moses, as he is fondly called, declared that the Night of Bliss was God’s answer to the cry of many in the city for divine visitation.
According to the cleric, “God has sent us to bring His presence to the people of Edo State and all who will be in attendance. And there shall be an unusual demonstration of the power of God in the lives of His people.”
Pastor Moses said that the programme will bring about salvation of souls, healing miracles for the sick and infirm, deliverance for the oppressed and divers miracles. In his words: “We are confident that the impact of this programme will live with everyone in attendance for a long time to come.”
National Daily findings show that arrangements have been made for adequate security across the city as men and officers of the Nigeria Police, Department of State Service, (DSS), Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corp and other security organizations have been mobilized.
ALSO SEE: Night of Bliss Ghana: Pastor Chris exposes satanic tactics, deceptions
“Free transportation arrangements have been made to convey people from different locations to the venue. Accordingly, buses have been allocated to convey invitees to and fro the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, venue of the event; the buses are branded and strategically located city wide; while crowd control measures are in place.”
“Adequate car parking space is provided for invitees coming with their cars, while men and officers of the Federal Road Safety Corp, (FRSC), have been mobilized to manage and ensure smooth flow of human and vehicular traffic,” the cleric stated.
Top flight international gospel artistes are billed to minister in music to the attendees; among them is Multiple award-winning sensation Sinach, Victor Ike, Joe Praise, Eben, PU, Ur Flames and the Christ Embassy Benin Zone1 Mass Choir.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment