Share this on WhatsApp



TO coincide with its 20-year anniversary, the SLK compact roadster is to be launched in April 2016 with a new name the SLC as well as significantly optimised technology and an enhanced look.
As part of the facelift, the Mercedes-Benz designers have further honed the cult roadster’s sporty look. The new front section, where the steeply raked radiator grille elongates the appearance of the arrow-shaped bonnet, is particularly striking.
All SLC models feature a diamond radiator grille as standard. The extensive array of standard equipment includes Active Brake Assist (previously known as collision prevention assist plus), attention assist, panoramic vario-roof, multifunction sports steering wheel in nappa leather, Audio 20 CD, air conditioning and LED tail lamps.
ALSO SEE: Ibadan to host Geely cars assembly plant 
With dynamic select the vehicle characteristics can be adjusted instantly at the touch of a button, as the system modifies the engine, transmission, steering and suspension (the latter in conjunction with the Dynamic Handling package) at the driver’s behest. Dynamic select is a standard feature in the SLC 300 and in the SLC 200 with 9G-TRONIC, transmission mode selection is available as an option.
For optimum visibility on country roads and motorways, when cornering and on bends, the LED Intelligent Light System automatically adapts to all light and driving conditions. Adaptive Highbeam Assist Plus (in conjunction with the LED Intelligent Light System), allows main beam to remain switched on without dazzling other road users.
A feature that continues to be unique to the SLC is the panoramic vario-roof with MAGIC SKY CONTROL this glass roof is lightened or darkened at the touch of a button. Operating the electrohydraulic roof is now even more straightforward. If when opening or closing the roof the vehicle has to move off due to the traffic conditions, the process which was started when at a standstill can be continued up to a speed of approx. 40 km/h. Another new feature is the automatic boot separator (in conjunction with the optional vario-roof convenience feature or optional KEYLESS-GO): if the separator is in the upper position for increased boot capacity, it automatically moves down when the roof is opened.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment