Share this on WhatsApp



By Isaac Tersoo Agber
It is no longer two of more stops for passengers flying into Amsterdam’s magnificent Schiphol airport via United State’s Delta Air Lines.
The journey has been made easy by Delta Air Lines through its codeshare agreement with Transavia, a subsidiary of KLM. The partnership is aimed at expanding the choice of onward destinations offered by Delta from the United States via its hub at Amsterdam’s Schiphol Airport.
Once government approvals are received, customers flying on any of Delta’s 19 peak-day flights from the U.S. to Amsterdam will be able to connect with Delta marketed code onto 10 Transavia destinations, including four destinations not currently offered by Delta through its existing trans-Atlantic airline partnerships.
These new codeshare points include: Seville and Alicante, Spain; Thessaloniki, Greece; and Marrakech, Morocco. Six points already served by Delta will receive additional schedule connection opportunities with Transavia, including Barcelona, Malaga, Valencia and Ibiza, Spain; Lisbon, Portugal; and Casablanca, Morocco.
ALSO SEE: FG determined to deal with safety, security issues in aviation – Sirika
“Partnering with Transavia will enable Delta to expand its network to include more leisure destinations, primarily in the Mediterranean region, that are popular with U.S. tourists during both summer and winter months,” said Nat Pieper, Delta’s senior vice president Europe, Middle East and Africa.
According to him, “this agreement complements our already extensive network of codeshare services offered via Amsterdam with our partner KLM and opens the possibility of Delta being able to codeshare to additional Transavia destinations in the future.”
Delta codeshare on these Transavia routes will provide customers with coordinated customer service, a single ticket and through-check in of bags to their final destinations.  Delta SkyMiles members will be eligible to earn frequent flyer miles on all Delta codeshare routes with Transavia.
Transavia serves more than 110 destinations throughout Europe and into North Africa with its fleet of 43 Boeing 737 aircraft.
“Transavia sets the tone in hospitality, service and digital technology in the European low-cost market and we look forward to offering Delta customers a warm welcome and friendly service on board our flights,” said Paul de Raad, Transavia’s vice president of Marketing and e-commerce. “As we celebrate our 50th anniversary in 2016, our sights are set on maintaining our position as the leading European point-to-point carrier to become the most affordable and accessible airline in Europe.”
Delta marked its 25th anniversary of service to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol last year.  Having launched its first flight from Atlanta to Amsterdam in 1990, Delta’s network from the airport has steadily grown to 19 peak-day flights to eight U.S. destinations. For further information about Delta or to book flights log onto delta.com.
ALSO SEE: Ethiopian invests $100m in upgrade of aviation academy
Delta Air Lines serves nearly 180 million customers each year. The airline was named among FORTUNE magazine’s top 50 World’s Most Admired Companies in addition to being named the most admired airline for the fourth time in five years.
Additionally, Delta has ranked No.1 in the Business Travel News Annual Airline survey for an unprecedented five consecutive years. With an industry-leading global network, Delta and the Delta Connection carriers offer service to 328 destinations in 57 countries on six continents.
Headquartered in Atlanta, Delta employs nearly 80,000 employees worldwide and operates a mainline fleet of more than 800 aircraft. The airline is a founding member of the SkyTeam global alliance and participates in the industry’s leading trans-Atlantic joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia as well as a joint venture with Virgin Atlantic.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment