Share this on WhatsApp



BABA De Baba recently talked about established comedians who refuse to support upcoming comedians. He said they would promise to help you while you continue serving them without any good plans for you the apprentice. He stated this as one of the reasons that made many Nigerian comedians give up on comedy after they had wasted many years serving a super star comedian.
Baba De Baba said, “My former boss called and threatens me to remove the skit Show me the way from the internet. He said someone saw the skit and showed it to him and I asked him, how did the person know you were the evil boss since I didn’t mention your name?”
“Baba De Baba you made mockery of me in your skit abi? Don’t worry, the battle line is drawn” he screamed at Baba De Baba. According to Baba De Baba, he served about four comedians that didn’t add value to his life, it’s either they didn’t give him the mic to perform or they gave him at the end of the event when the audience are no longer in their numbers and mood.
“While some turned me to a servant that I would wear them clothes in public, na small thing remain I for dey bath them. Since I was sleeping when the call came in I told him I will assume it’s a dream but if he calls to threaten me again, I will shoot part 2 and mention his name in it”.
ALSO SEE: Nigerian Art Boom: Chijioke, Oresegun make international statements
This is not the first time the Mbaise, Imo state-born humor merchant is being threatened for his choice of content. The fast-rising comedian in early 2014 had released a comedy CD he titled ‘Letter To Politicians’ where he talked about issues affecting the country, blamed politicians for the woes in the country. The work was embraced by many, who commended him for his insightfulness. But the comedian told press men then his ‘Letter To Politicians’ brought him more enemies because of the content of his jokes, which some politicians did not find funny. He informed that he received threats messages for some people regarding the comedy CD.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment