Share this on WhatsApp



The Chief Executive Officer of MTN Nigeria, Mr Ferdi Moolman aid the company had formally withdrawn the court case it filed against the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC).
Moolman said in a statement in Lagos, that the telecommunications company kept its promise to act in good faith and withdrew the court case.
The statement said that the withdrawal paved the way to continue settlement discussions with the Nigerian authorities, towards an amicable resolution of the matter in the best interests of MTN and Nigeria.
It would be recalled that on Feb. 24 MTN had announced its withdrawal of the court case and made an initial payment of N50 billion without prejudice.
The statement said that the payment was made on the basis that it would be applied towards a settlement when one was arrived at.
ALSO SEE: NCC lifts suspension of MTN’s regulatory services
”We have kept our promise to withdraw and we have followed through by formally doing so. This is in line with the premium we place on good corporate citizenship.
”The formal withdrawal today at the Federal High Court, with all parties in attendance, signals further progress in the negotiations between MTN Nigeria and the Nigerian authorities.
”This is another manifestation of good faith and intent by MTN Nigeria. We have confidence in the equally good intentions of the Nigerian authorities and the strength of our mutual commitment to an amicable resolution.
”The high priority that government is giving to the sustainability of the industry assures us of a truly integrated approach amongst all parties.
ALSO SEE: Senate Invites Minister, NCC over MTN Fine
”This is towards the growth of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) as a critical enabler of socio-economic development in Nigeria,” the statement quoted Moolman as saying.
MTN had filed a suit to challenge the N1.04 trillion fine imposed on it by NCC, for its failure to deactivate its unregistered subscribers.
However, in January, the court gave MTN and NCC the grace to settle out of court before the resumption of the case on March 18.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment