By Eben Enasco Kingsley, Benin City
Tt was mid-drama at the Edo State High Court of Justice against all expectations over the suit filled against Governor Adams Oshiomhole of Edo State by the sacked chairman of Oredo Local Government, Mr. Osaro Obazee, as quest to challenge his alleged unlawful removal from office, yesterday,hit a snag following the State High Court judge, Justice Esohe Ikponmwen, withdrawal from the case.
Although, there was no Major reason given for her decisions to hands off the case but she sited interests from undisclosed source that may have led to her decision not to continue with the case, hence, requested for reassignment of the case.
It will be recalled that Obazee had in September last year, approached the court challenging his removal from office by Edo State House of Assembly and Governor Oshiomhole over alleged financial impropriety, among other allegations.
The Judgment was earlier fixed for February 23, but was deferred after counsel to the claimant, Mr Kingsley Obamogie, brought a new application before the court on the removal of his client from office by the defendants.
ALSO SEE: Edo APC has not anointed any guber aspirant — Airhiavbere
When the case was called up for hearing yesterday, Justice Ikponmwen disclosed that,the case file would be sent to the Chief Judge of Edo State, Justice Cromwell Idahosa, to re-assign to another judge at a later date that would be communicated to the parties involved.
According to her, “I cannot continue with the case,” admitting however that “there could be interests which are personal.”
The judge warned parties in the suit not to speculate because no reason was given by the court.
Reacting to the purported judgment, the counsel to the claimant, Mr. Obamogie, lamented that the decisions of the court was frustrating the cause of justice.
“We get frustrated when we have this kind of matter. We are not happy.
We cannot be satisfied. Everyone is out to get justice,” he remarked.

			
			Post Views: 
			40