Share this on WhatsApp

As Ambode Insists  welfare, security of Lagosians paramount

Anglican Archbishop of Ecclesiastical Province of Lagos Mainland Diocese, Most Reverend Adebayo Dada Akinde, on Monday, commended the administration of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, saying the prompt, positive and practical response of the government contributed largely to the success story of the safe rescue of the three female students of Babington Macaulay Junior Seminary, Ikorodu.

Akinde, who led other bishops of the Anglican Church, Principal of the school, Ven. Olaoluwa Adeyemi, and parents of the three rescued female students on a “thank you” courtesy visit to the Governor at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja, said the story of the rescue of the girls cannot be complete without the laudable efforts of the Lagos State Government.

He said he and his team deemed it fit to come and appreciate the role played by the state government in the wake of the abduction of the students from the school on February 29 and, particularly, the role of Governor Ambode.

“It was a most traumatic moment and sad for us as proprietors. Today we are thanking God for his intervention that a most unfortunate and traumatic event ended on a joyous note. All three pupils are now safe in the custody of their parents, they have been reunited. You acted and responded. Your response was prompt, your response was positive, your response was practical,” the Archbishop said.


ALSO SEE: Police rescues abducted school girls, arrest three suspects


“So the main objective of our mission here is to express immense thanks to your Excellency for the support you gave us. We are saying thank you, we are indeed grateful, you have started well as the Governor of the State, God will grant you the grace to continue and improve in the name of Jesus. We sincerely appreciate you and are immensely grateful,” Bishop Akinde said. 

Also speaking, Principal of the school, Ven. Adeyemi said they were indeed grateful for the support encouragement and prayers they received from several quarters while the ordeal lasted.

He said with the security apparatus put in place by the state government, it was game over for those who have taken to crime in Lagos.


“No hiding place for criminals in Lagos now, because for the event that took place in the past few days and that God in his infinite mercy helped us and the security agencies did their work well and the girls are with us now. They are back in school and have reunited with their parents. I believe that God is working in Lagos,” he said.

One of the parents of the recued girls, Ven. Ayo Olusan, said they were relieved with the return of their girls, saying the prayers offered by Nigerians and the prompt effort of the state government played a huge role towards the rescue of the girls.

Responding, Governor Ambode said the incident was a test of the government’s commitment to the security of lives and property in the state.

ALSO SEE: Police nab three robbery suspects in Delta, recover stolen items

“Seven days ago, the unthinkable happened, but again, we give all the glory to God that seven days after we are able to pride ourselves that one of those principal duties that you have charged this administration with is what we have just proved,” he said.

“It’s just for me to reiterate that the security of lives and properties is of paramount interest to this administration, we will do anything to make sure that the security of lives and property is sustained, is enhanced, because at the end of the day that is the only way we can grow the economy of Lagos,” Ambode said.

Governor Ambode also sent a strong warning to criminals to desist from their nefarious activities, warning that his administration is poised to spread its security searchlight to every nook and cranny of the state.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment