Share this on WhatsApp



THE all new Santa Fe Sport was honored as BEST 5 All-Around Performance from Automotive Science Group (ASG) for achieving the highest combined social, environmental and economic performance scores.
“ASG recognizes Hyundai’s continued leadership on corporate social responsibility, producing vehicles that consumers can be proud to own,” said Colby Self, managing director of ASG.
“The top-rated 2016 Santa Fe Sport is one such example that leads in a hypercompetitive market segment by delivering noteworthy all-around performance that strikes an intelligent balance between environmental, social and economic performance considerations.”
The Santa Fe Sport is a BEST 5 selection in a group of 104 midsize SUVs. ASG rated 2016-model-year vehicles available in the North American market by performing data-driven automobile assessments based on thousands of algorithmic calculations and data points to determine the award winners. ASG uses its proprietary Automotive Performance Index™, which is a combination of conventional specifications, along with environmental, economic and social performance indicators.
ALSO SEE: SLC: New name, new dynamics
“We are proud the Santa Fe Sport is recognized by the Automotive Science Group as a market segment leader by setting new standards,” said Brandon Ramirez, senior group manager, product planning, Hyundai Motor America. “As the crossover segment continues to break record sales, Hyundai is well positioned to meet the expectations of these shoppers by delivering crossovers with exceptional quality, value and technology.”
The 2016 Santa Fe Sport is powered by an efficient 2.4-liter four-cylinder engine or the powerful, turbocharged 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine. The vehicle comes equipped with standard features, including remote keyless entry with alarm, body-color heated exterior power mirrors with driver’s blind spot mirror, LED headlight accents, steering wheelmounted audio and cruise control and Bluetooth hands-free phone system.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment