Share this on WhatsApp



By ADEWUMI ADEMIJU, Ado Ekiti
THE People Democratic Party in Ekiti state has called on the ruling All Progressives Congress under the administration of President Muhammodu Buhari to earnestly take neccessary steps that would rescue Nigeria from the present economic recession facing the country.
Speaking with newsmen at the PDP Secretariat in Ado Ekiti,the Ekiti state People Democratic party Chairman. Barrister George Gboyega Oguntunwase said
“The essence of democracy is to deliver the dividends of the process, everybody expects some things as benefits of democracy. All these things include easy access to feeding, school, the basics of life, but these things are no longer easily attainable under the harsh economic situation in which Nigerians have found themselves”.
The PDP Chairman explains that people are regretting their votes for general Buhari and that the regret is based upon the fact that the much expected changes are not forth coming. ” there are no positive changes there are only changes for the words.
Oguntunwase lamented that People are under horrifying economic situations and the security of life and property is not guaranteed by this government.
“This regret of Nigeria would ultimately distinct the termination of this government in 2019 democratically and it could lead to the extinction of APC.
The PDP Chairman frowns at what he describes as “lack of focus by the administration of Buhari.
ALSO SEE: Buhari insists he will stop food importation
“The ineptitude is so clear that they don’t even know how to arrest the sliding of the Naira.
The value of naira is falling daily and they don’t know how to arrest the situation.
“People are losing jobs everyday,this is traceable to the fact that industries and manufacturing concerned are closing down.
Oguntuwase therefore appeals to General Buhari to” shelve all arrogance, pride, vindictiveness and face the issue of governance properly.
“Nigerians are yearning for a better athmosphere where their tomorrow can be guarranted. They are yearning for a situation where the nation would be a better place they can break through. They are yearning for a Nigeria,where Nigerians can give advice,not where they live as haters of themselves base upon tribes and religions.
Nigerians are yearning for a situation where the economic situation would be a better one for all,where graduate would not only be produced by universities and just going into the open market facing hopelessness of tomorrow.
“We appeal to the APC and President Buhari in particular to bring together all Nigerians and make sure they contribute positively. He should not by his conduct,send some people away from him,calling them political enemies”
The PDP Chairman thereby advises President Muhammodu Buhari to revisit the issue of National Conference and not just throw it away,saying” a lot of money were invested into the National conference ,and a lot of good and quality material emanated from it, but if he throws all of them away,it would barely show that every other thing beside unifying Nigeria,beside making Nigeria to live a better life are the motivating factors for it.
“Building a better Nigeria and a strong economic future for Nigeria people is the real motivating factor for a good leader” Oguntuwase added.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment