President Muhammadu Buhari once again that the change he and APC promised Nigerians will come, but with perseverance and hard work.
“During our campaigns, we promised our people positive and progressive change. But history has taught us that change does not come as easy as that. Change will come after much hard work, patience and perseverance,” he said this in Osogbo while commissioning a 3000-capacity Osogbo Government High School.
It is one amongst other projects executed by Osun Gov. Rauf Aregbesola on Thursday.
The president’s visit was part of activities marking the state’s 25th anniversary.
“We promised that we shall do everything for our country and our people and this won’t be long in coming.Our government has been helping states to realise their developmental plans irrespective of political parties,” Mr. Buhari said.
According to him,  the facility commissioned is worthy of emulation by other states—and that it’s part of the fulfilment of the APC government policy on education.
In his remarls, Aregbesola, in his remarks, said the president had not disappointed the citizens as regards his promise to the people.
ALSO SEE: Nigerians are dying of hunger – Fayose berates Buhari
“He has faced his task with courage and doggedness. No doubt, he is facing some challenges part of which is the fall in revenue that has put about 28 states under severe financial crisis,” Mr. Aregbesola said.
.“The challenges we are facing are as a result of the previous party’s (Peoples Democratic Party, PDP) rape of our resources.”
The governor put the cost of the school at N1.35 billion, and said the school had standard facilities.
He said besides classrooms, there are offices, laboratories, toilets, library, bookshop, sick bay, and multi-purpose hall which can accommodate 1000 students for examinations.
Others present on the occasion Governors Abiola Ajimobi, Ibrahim Shettima and Akinwunmi Ambode.
Deputy governors, ministers, members of the national and state houses assembly, and permanent secretaries were also in attendance.
 

			
			PV: 
			0