As the governorship election in Edo state ended few hours ago, the process has been described as not “free and fair’ due to the massive electoral manipulations and monetisation of votes by the All Progressive Party (APC) led government in the state.
National Daily learnt that the principle of democracy were not adhered to as ballot boxes were illegally stocked with thump printed ballot papers by agents of All Progressive Congress (APC).
A source hinted National Daily that the APC government splashed a total of N100million in Iyaro as voters were paid between N3,000 to N5,000 to cast their vote for APC candidate,
According to Osaro who spoke with our reporter said the process was manipulated. He explained that even though he voted for PDP, some agents of the ruling party, who had so much money on them to share gave him N2,000.
At Oko Central at the Government Reservation Area (GRA), Mr Matthew Aigbe, told our reporter that since he has been voting, he has not seen an election where so much money was displayed flagrantly to muscle the other party as seen in Edo state governorship election.
ALSO SEE: Edo election: Tight security, relative turnout as accreditations begin
He expressed disappointment with the APC led government saying that “if this was what they call democracy, we are not close to it.
“There is no way PDP can think of winning this election with this level of corruption and manipulation. PDP will only struggle but they can never win this election because it was not free and fair”, he added.
At Ekpoma in Esan West local government, voting was manipulated by stockpiling ballot boxes and money was also  used to buy voters to vote for APC.
In Ukpenu where Mrs Patricia was supposed to vote, voting was said to have been stopped midway and voters sent away. When they enquired, they were told ” order from above” and they went home disappointed having been accredited.
It was further gathered that some APC loyalist thump printed ballot papers and stocked several ballot boxes at the old government house chambers in Benin City.
According to a source who hinted National Daily said the illegality was perpetrated by agents of All Progressive Congress in the old champers without security men present.
Earlier, men of the Nigerian Army apprehended one Mr Toritse Tigbebe, the Personal Assistant to the Edo state All Progressive Congress (APC) youth leader, Osakpamwan Nomoless, with “Ghana Must Go” bags containing 3,000 Personal Voter’s Cards (PVC) and N15 million cash at Ikpoba hill in the state capital.
Some PDP Chieftain were also seen sharing money, it was learnt it wasn’t to the scale of APC  who had so much to throw around to manipulate the electorate to swing the election to their favour

			
			Post Views: 
			138