Share this on WhatsApp
By Lanre Adesanya
Living a prayerful and sacrificial live has been stated a the way out of insecurity rocking the world peace.
This spirit permeated the atmosphere as one of the Marian Apostolate of  the Catholic group celebrates the first centenary of Lady Fatima Apparition.
This was contained in the thrust of the national summit today, theme: “100 Years of Fatima Apparitions: Accessing the roles,commitments and spirituality of Marian Apostolate in Nigeria, held to commemorate the message of Fatima, organized by the Block Rosary Crusade Nigeria at DOMUS MARIAE, Saint Mary’s Catholic Church Isolo, Lagos.
The Arch Bishop of Lagos, Reverend Dr. Alfred Adewale Martins, represented by Reverend Father Etiebet who declared the summit opened, note that there is a need to appraise the past efforts of the BRCN to evaluate the present and map out ways to address future occurrence.
Prof. Michael Ogunu, the Vice President(English) World Apostolate of Fatima-Africa who presented the first paper at summit, hinge his presentation on the political relevance of the celebration on the African continent and Nigeria in particular.
Ogunu harped on the implementation of Fatima message as the needed panacea to address insecurity confronting Nigeria and Nigerian especially the terrorist tendency awash the world frame.
ALSO SEE: Military kill two terrorist in ambush at Musafanari
The BRCN National President,Bro. John Attamah, in his opening remarks stress the importance of prayer, penance and sacrifice  to all faithfuls,given its consequence.
Attamah emphasized the uniqueness of the group’s daily intercessory routine, done through a 13,000 unit centres as a deliberate attempt to inculcate in the human race the nature of God, which in essence will lead to peaceful coexistence and good neighbourliness in our troubled world.
According to him,we are just celebrating history that happened 99years ago, with a summit prior to the actual Fatima Apparition celebration.
“Our group solely propagates the  message and essence of Fatima Apparition of the virgin Mary in Portugal to three little children  calling for prayers,repentance and sacrifice to safe the world peace”.
The National chairman centenary organizing committee Bro. Fidelis Nwanchukwu, advised all members in schools and elsewhere to open a centre wherever they are to propagate the message of Fatima the more.
Many revered Catholic clerics across Nigeria were in attendance, amongst which were, Rev.Fr.Andrew Abhuline,Most Rev.Dr.Ayo-Maria Atoyebi who also delivered papers.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment