From EMEKA NWULU, Owerri
THE Formal Deputy Speaker Federal House of Representatives Chief Emeka Ihedioha has described embattled Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ali Modu Sheriff as inexperienced and unqualified candidate to lead the party.
He said Ali Modu Sheriff lacked ideas that are in consonance with party principles and that leadership charisma to pilot the party affairs.
Ihedioha stated this while briefing newsmen in Owerri after the party’s state congress to elect their new party Excos.
He stated further that Sherif was rejected by the 2/3 majority of the party members even the party caucus on the ground that he does not possess the nifty strength to take the party forward.
He reiterated that he was given an opportunity, tested twice as care taker committee and couldn’t perform.
He said he lack the merit to take the party to a national light.
Chief Ihedioha described the newly elected Excos as credible, tested and trusted with vibrant ideas to reposition the party for its success in future.
He charged them to be more focused and honest towards their services to humanity and the state at large.
He told the world that the present Exco of the party will bring succour to the party and return the lost glory of the state.
ALSO SEE: PDP BoT submits to Sheriff’s peace deal demand
The election was observed by the past Govs., present and past members of the serving state and federal legislatures, party leaders like Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyawun and Chief Achike Udenwa, and serving senators in the state and party faithful.
He told the people that the era of the party’s logger-head is gone, now is the main time to streamline the future of the party to regain its horse power for the leadership of the nation.
‘There is no problem with PDP both state and federal ‘ he stated.
‘Those who are the party’s worry are no longer here ad cannot be here’.
He said over 1200 delegates across the 27 LGAs participated in the election and voted accordingly.
He described the election free and fair which he said has never taken place since the history of the state and the party.

			
			PV: 
			0