From EBEN ENASCO KINGSLEY, Benin City
THE campaign tour of the governorship candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu took a new tune ahead of the September governorship election following his meeting with delegates of Iyekogba Communities which span across fifty-three villages in Oredo Local Government Area.
The accord Development pact was reached with the councils of Enigie (Dukes) elders and youth leaders of the communities at the palace of the chairman of the Enigies, HRH, Anthony Osayemwenre, the Enogie of Umengbi, as the PDP candidate was presented with a wish list in written documents.
As part of the wish lists the requests for the construction of roads, schools and appointment of indigents into influential positions in government were mentioned.
”The Communities had resolved that their support for any candidate would be dependent on his going into agreement with them” he stated.
He lamented that in spite of their size and contribution to the determination of the electoral process, Iyekogba Communities have always lacked government impact by way of provision of necessary infrastructure.
ALSO SEE: INEC postponement saves APC from defeat – Dokpesi
The Duke of Umengbi stated that this time around, their demands have been spelt out in black and white and it would become a reference point when the candidate is elected governor.
Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu while thanking His Highness, opined that he was delighted at the initiative of the communities which he said he would have no difficulty signing because all the requests were in consonance with his developmental drives adding that lately, the PDP members at the national assembly had demonstrated a commitment to in Edo State.
The PDP candidate however used the occasion to introduce his written manifesto titled the SIMPLE Agenda which articulates in practical terms how he intends to achieve his development goals.
Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu drew the attention of the members of the communities to a page in his SIMPLE Agenda document where he specifically mentioned the construction of the roads in Iyekogba and which would link them to Ekewan Communities in Ovia North East Local Government Area.
He pointed out that beyond the facilities requested, he desires to bring industries to Iyekogba so as to enhance the economy of the communities as well as create jobs for its members . He also spoke about his plan for farm support and empowerment..
Meanwhile, at the campaign rally ground, Pastor Ize-Iyamu lamented that it was regrettable that eight years after Governor Adams Oshiomhole promised to develop Iyekogba, nothing was done.
He quipped that instead, the governor concentrated sixty-five percent of his development effort in his village, Iyamho.
Ize-Iyamu called on the people to reject APC which is a continuation of the selfish agenda of Governor Adams Oshiomhole, saying that he and the PDP has the welfare of the people of Edo State at heart. He however proceeded to sign the agreement with the communities.