ONLY recently, the Apapa Customs Command set a record monthly revenue collection at N35billion but the Tin Can Island Customs has quickly taken cue with the Command also generating over N26billion in August.
The reform agenda put in place by the Controller Tincan Island Port. Comptroller Bashar, Y. U has started yielding desired results with the unprecedented collection of 26.2 billion in the month of August, 2016.
This figure represents a positive signal going by the indices of the previous month. It will be recalled that the Controller had expressed his determination to institute operational reforms and policies that will guarantee maximum revenue collections.
Some of the measures include; creating the necessary awareness on the stakeholders towards complying with the Federal Government’s Fiscal Policies on terms of trade. The Controller reiterated that the full automation and computerization of Customs processes and procedures have helped in enhancing the general performance of the Service, coupled with his insistence that due diligence must be followed in all transactions.
He further stated that the Command Control Communication and Intelligence System (CCCIS) is a way of further enhancing and perfecting operational processes at the Ports.
ALSO SEE: Customs intercepts pistol, bullets at Tin Can port
The Controller stressed that all these measures were put in place to curb sharp practices and for the purpose of re-engineering the entire operational and data system for the actualization of desired results.
The Controller also pointed out that even in the face of the current global economic recession, Tin Can Island Port will not relent in its statutory mandate of revenue generation through various interventionist methods particularly where infractions are detected.
Speaking further, the Controller expressed optimism that the current economic crunch will soon become history as there are positive indications, that the economic policies of the Federal Government will soon address some of the challenges presently faced.
In the same vein, the Controller drew the attention of stakeholders to the “Dispute Resolution Committee” of the Command, charged and invested with the responsibility of resolving disputes that might arise as a result of contentions in valuation and/ or classification of goods as the case may be.
He enjoined importers and/or their agents to take advantage of it and contest all issues for eventual resolution. The Comptroller also stated that he has given a marching order to his officers and men to be on their guard at all times while ensuring that standards are not compromised.
He thanked the Comptroller General of Customs Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd.), and his management team for their untiring effort towards raising the capacity, competence and commitment of officers, which have continued to yield result.
Finally, he promised to make Tin Can Island Port more user friendly for honest importers who are prepared to display high sense of integrity and responsibility

			
			Post Views: 
			168