Share this on WhatsApp
By EDIALE KINGSLEY
THE realtime Film Festival a Film Festival founded by and for independent filmmakers who seek to express themselves through the showcase of the mastery of their craft – announces its maiden edition taking place from the 29th of September to the 3rd of October 2016.
The Festival, which is a celebration of artistic excellence will bring together cinema enthusiasts, filmmakers and artists from across the world to discover the richness of Nigerian culture & tourism and also experience an unforgettable collection of cross cultural films.
Speaking to pressmen recently, the convener, Stanlee Ohikuare expressed the RTF visionas“a commitment to build a truly International and remotely accessible Film Festival our mission isto become the biggest and most acclaimed technology driven, remotely accessible Festival in Africa within two years of our existence”.
The festival will screen an array of feature films, short-films and animations representing various cultures along with a special celebration of Nigeria’s veteran filmmakers, discussion panels, awards presentation and free master classes by industry giants over a four day period.
Interested participants in the masterclasses can log on to www.realtimefilmfestival.com for further details on registration and festival schedule.
The Festival Artistic Director and multiple award winning filmmaker, Stanlee Ohikhuare, announced that 800 films were submitted for consideration for the festival from 60 different countries both on the Festival website and on Film Freeway.
The Festival Industry Head and exceptional film producer/director Tope Oshin says he is optimistic of our readiness to host storytellers from around the globe. As the world shrinks, and the ability of Filmmakers to connect with diverse global cultures becomes easier, we are bringing the world together through the art of film.
ALSO SEE: 93 Days world screening sells out at the Toronto International Film Festival
“So far, we have over 800 Film submissions from 60 different countries out of which 55 Movies have been selected for screening over a four day period. We shall employ the use of current Technology to achieve the Real-Time attribute of the Festival making it possible for film makers and enthusiasts alike to participate remotely.”
Also, the Festival will feature the world premiere of the movie tagged “Nollywwod’s most controversial movie” -Behind The Wheels directed by Stanlee Ohikhuare at the New African Shrine making history as the first feature film to be screened at the esteemed African cultural centre.
Heading the jury panel of this year’s festival is BAYO AWALA who will be bringing years of experience into the Festival’s scrutiny of diverse film expressions in ensuring credibility of the eventual outcome based on recommendations by the International Judges from the USA , Nigeria and Australia.
On the panel are -Animator, Michael Loeck (USA); Lighting Designer and Director of photography, CHRISTIAN EPPS (USA); Filmmaker and Festival organizer, JEF GRAY(USA); Documentary filmmaker, FEMI ODUGBEMI (NIGERIA); Music composer AARON LATINA(USA); Filmmaker JANELLE MEAGER (AUSTRALIA)and ace photographer, PHILLIP TRIMNELL (NIGERIA).
As this year’s Festival is scheduled to coincide with Nigeria’s 56thIndependence Day Celebration, students, aspiring filmmakers, enthusiaists and actors will be presented with the opportunity to acquire skills in Directing, Cinematography, Lighting Design and Acting with renowned industry professionals in master classes training that will be organized free of charge.
Among the facilitators of the Two day Free Masterclasses are TECO BENSON, YINKA EDWARD, UZO OKPECHI AND IRETIOLA DOYLE. Prospective students for the Masterclasses are expected to register for the training through the festival website.
Real-Time Film Festival will give attendees a chance to interact with directors and producers of films that will screened in a Question and Answer session after each film is screened. This accords people attending the Festival the opportunity to interact directly with the FILM MAKERS whether they are participating remotely or attending in person. This feature (use of technology for remote access)isa ground breaking approach in global film festival history.
The Festival will close with a Festival Awards Night where veteran Nigeria filmmakers, who have not been accorded their due tributeswill be celebrated and honoured.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment