Share this on WhatsApp



By CHIOMA OBINAGWAM
THE Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has said that it has commenced its 2016 edition of the NSE Essay Competition for students in Senior Secondary Schools in all states of the federation.
The topic for this year’s edition, it stated, is ‘ What is the biggest obstacle to saving and investing money and how can The Nigerian Stock Exchange help.’
To enter the competition which opened on Thursday, September 1, 2016 and closes on Friday, October 14, 2016, participants are required to email their typewritten entries, which should not be more than 1,000 words to essay@nse.com.ng. An online submission form is also available on www.nse.com.ng and the Nigerian Stock Exchange’s Facebook page.
ALSO SEE: Stock market records N411m liquidity drop in August, September
This year’s competition which is sponsored by Access Bank, Rand Merchant Bank, and Dangote Foundation, will see the top three winners presented with equity investments, University scholarship funds and personal Laptops/tablets at the Awards ceremony in November 2016. They will also be honoured with a Closing Gong ceremony.
The schools of the top three winners will also be presented with trophies, Desktop Computers and Printers.
According to Mr. Bola Adeeko, Head, Corporate Services Division, NSE, improving financial literacy is important to the future of Nigeria. “Through the NSE Essay Competition, we are promoting financial literacy among young Nigerians, by encouraging them to learn how good financial decisions can better their lives now and in the future, and ultimately grow the economy. The competition serves as an essential platform to get the perspectives of our young ones on key challenges relating to financial literacy and inclusion in Nigeria.”
Since it began in year 2000, The NSE Essay Competition has inspired over 20,000 young people in over 2,500 secondary schools across Nigeria to showcase what they have learnt about the financial and capital markets. It provides an important opportunity for youths to engage in issues of importance to The Nigerian economy.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment