By ADEWUMI ADEMIJU, Ado Ekiti
THE Board of Trustees (BOT) and the National Executive Council (NEC) of the National Commercial Tricycle/ Motorcycle Owners and Riders Association (NACTOMORAS), the largest employer of labour in Nigeria with over 9.2 million members, has honoured and appointed the former president Olusegun Obasanjo as National Grand Patron.
The appointed was made at an event of the association which took place at the presidential library auditorium in Abeokuta, Ogun State.
The presentation of the award and decoration was made by the national president and board of trustees’ chairman of the association, Alhaji Sani Hassan and Chief E.O. Oladapo respectively.
They lauded Obasanjo for his positive contributions to the national development.
“He deserves the honour because he has been a rescuing angel for some dying causes in Nigeria,” they said.
ALSO SEE: Obasanjo disappoints Sheriff, says he can’t help dying PDP
In his remark, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo said he was glad to accept the honour, adding that he’s a friend of riders and all Nigerians’
He enjoined members of the associations to desist from criminality; reckless riding, drug abuse, advising that they should abide and maintain traffic rules.
He also stated they should be disciplined and must not support any political party.
He also said that” associations don’t belong to any political party”
Among the dignity present were, HRM Onifo of Ifo, Oba Olujide Akinyemi, Executive Director of Globastorm safety foundation, Olumuyiwa Babalola, the national secretary of Nactomoras Comrade Daramola Williams, the national treasurer/trustees, Ugochukwu Okoli, Ex-officio 1/trustees, Fatai Adewole, national PRO, Godwin Ikolo and national member of trustees, Rauf Adetunji.
The Onifo of Ifo Oba Olujide advised members of the association that patience and discipline should be their watch word while on the road. The monarch also briefed that their operations should commenced immediately in all nooks and crannies of ogun state.
The chairman of the association, Ogun state chapter, Alhaji Lateef Yekini Adio thanked the former president, chief Olusegun Obasanjo for accepting them as children and promised to abide by traffic rules and orders.

			
			PV: 
			0