Share this on WhatsApp



FOUNDER of the Oodua People’s Congress, Dr. Fredrick Fasheun has called on the Federal Government to pump more funds into the training and welfare of the Nigeria Police.
According to Fasheun, who is the Chairman of the Governing Council of APUDI Institute for Peace and Social Rehabilitation, said the remuneration package of the Nigeria Police was very poor, which over the years affected their performance in terms of intelligence gathering.
He made the call at the inauguration of APIS-University of Abuja Study Centre in Abuja, advising government to invest heavily in training and equipping the Nigeria Police to ensure effective security in the country.
“Now we need well trained police officers more than ever before to secure our country.The present poorly equipped, motivated and rewarded police cannot discharge their duties effectively.I am recommending that a Police officer should not be allowed to move around the street with AK47 but they should be well trained as professionals.”
The chairman said APIS would assist the Federal Government to have a well-trained and intelligent police force that would ensure safety of lives and property.He said that the institute would continue to partner with relevant agencies to promote peace and build human capacity for national development.
ALSO SEE: Police in a fix over promotion
Similarly, the Emir of Birnin Gwari, Alhaji Zubairu Jibril, also canvassed better condition of service for the Nigeria Police and all paramilitary organisations in the country. Jibril also advised the Federal Government to recruit 500,000 police officers to enhance security of lives and property in the nook and crannies of the country.
The emir, who decried proliferation of light and small arms in the country, appealed to the United Nations to create policy that would control production and sale of weapons to terrorists.
The President and Founder of APIS, Hamza Al-mustapha, said the aim of the institute was to enhance capacity building, research and social rehabilitation with a view to promoting peace.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment