BOBST’s Managing Director, Africa & Middle East, Samir Khoudja and Head of Sales, Business Unit Sheet-Fed, Emilio Corti at the press briefing in Lagos.
        Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
Global printing and packaging company, BOBST, has disclosed plans to take advantage of Nigeria’s large market through the establishment of an office in Lagos, providing pre-sales assistance and technical support for BOBST sheet-fed and web-fed customers.
Managing Director of BOBST for the Middle East and Africa, Samir Khoudja disclosed this at a cocktail reception held at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos on Tuesday for CEOs, MDs of packaging, label and FMCG companies, journalists and the Consul General of Switzerland in Lagos.
He said the Lagos office would serve as base for further expansion in the West African region. “West Africa, and Nigeria in particular, is a very dynamic market. By opening an office in Lagos, the city with the biggest population in the most populous country in Africa, we will be closer to our customers and able to provide them with an even higher standard of service.”
ALSO SEE: Dearth of funds, infrastructural deficits, government framework stifle loan access
He said the company which had for many years provided quality services to leading companies in Nigeria has finally decided to bring its services closer to its customers not just in Nigeria but also customers within the West African region.
According to him, the Lagos office is a new journey in Sub- Saharan Africa that will not only benefit BOBST, but also Nigeria and Nigerians as well. “Our goal is to hire and train Nigerians on how to operate our premium machineries, by so doing we are going to be imparting lives by providing manpower, and for Nigeria, BOBST is bringing in huge investment in both capital and manpower to boost the economy.”
“BOBST cares about what is important to other people because we embody tangible, human values and a passion for growth and innovation. We are bringing all these technical expertise to Nigeria and its people as well as other countries within the region,” he added
The company is one of the world’s leading suppliers of equipment and services to packaging and label manufacturers in the folding carton, corrugated board and flexible materials industries. It currently has a sales and service center in Tunis, Tunisia, with overall responsibility for BOBST activities in Africa and the Middle East.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment