Share this on WhatsApp



Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose, has described Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari as lacking capacity “mentally, morally and intellectually” to lead a civilised society.
The governor stated this in a statement on Thursday, signed by his Special Assistant on Public Communications and New Media, Lere Olayinka, while reacting to the news of the postponement of Edo State governorship election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
He accused President Buhari of using security agencies in the country to arm-twist democratic process.
He described the shift of the September 10 election to September 28 as a bad signal and beginning of the end for democracy in Nigeria.
According to him, it is not only Nigeria’s economy that is in recession, even the country’s democracy is also in recession.“It is obvious that the All Progressives Congress (APC) feared that it can’t win the election and is ready to employ whatever crude means to subvert the wish of the people.
“I warned Nigerians not to elect Buhari because he lacked capacity mentally, morally and intellectually to superintend over any civilised society, now we are all seeing the results. Our economy is in recession and democracy is also in recession!
“Apart from the security agencies that they instructed not to provide security for the election, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was under instruction since yesterday (Wednesday) not to release electoral materials to INEC.
ALSO SEE: Dopkesi admits collecting N2.1b payments for political adverts
“It was just a game by the APC-led federal government to frustrate the people of Edo State from kick-starting the journey of changing the APC one-chance change in Nigeria, but they should realise that the power of the people will always be greater than the power of those in power.
“How can you postpone an election less than 48 hours to the scheduled date? What manner of security concern could prevent an election in just one State when elections were held in Northeast States that are confronted by Boko Haram insurgents? Obviously, this is a sign of what to come in 2019 and Nigerians should not be amazed if in 2019, they tell us that elections cannot be conducted.
“This is sad! It is a sad commentary for democracy in Nigeria and I only hope this Buhari’s APC government will not collapse democracy in this country,” Fayose said.
He then called on the people of Edo State to remain steadfast in their resolve to vote out the APC government, which has become “a government of hunger, poverty, job loss, economic and political recession, insecurity and unprecedented sufferings.
“Let them keep postponing their evil day, Edo people should just be vigilant and wait patiently for that day that they will use their votes to change the APC one-chance change,” he stated.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment