THE controversies over the 278 Chibok girls abducted on April 14, 2014, has continued to cause sleepless nights for President Muhammadu Buhari. This is more so as the disagreement between the Inspector General Police and the Bring Back Pour Girls (BBOG) coordinators, particularly, the stoppage of BBOG from marching into the seat of power to seek audience with the President, have been causing public disquiet since last week.
The IG of Police, Ibrahim Idris, had cautioned the BBOG group that enough is enough, saying their protest constitutes security threat. Idris subsequently proceeded to ban public protest in an attempt to contain further protests by the BBOG or any other group.
The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, had last Wednesday stated that the street protests being embarked upon by Bring Back Our Girls (BBOG) group is a threat to public peace and order.
However, Professor Wole Soyinka, speaking in Lagos last Thursday at a symposium, warned that force must not be used against the BBOG campaigners and that they must be given their space to protest.
The Nobel laureate insisted that the protests can never be too much as long as the kidnapped Chibok girls continue to be under Boko Haram captivity. He had stated that the protests will reinforce the confidence of the girls who have been in captivity whenever the news get to them, adding that this will raise their hope of freedom. Soyinka maintained that it would be dangerous to forget the girls.
Furthermore, Femi Falana (SAN), a human rights activist and legal practitioner in Lagos, had described the ban on public protests in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) by the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Ibrahim Idris, as illegal.
Falana stated that with the ban, IGP Idris had “exposed the federal government to avoidable embarrassment”.
ALSO SEE: Presidency in dilemma over Niger Delta Avengers
“Sequel to the purported clash, the Inspector-General of Police had called the BBOG members and announced an illegal ban on public protests in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Since the fundamental rights of the Nigerian people (including former members of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) who are now in the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government) to assemble peacefully and demonstrate without any official harassment have been upheld by Nigerian courts, the illegal ban on public protests in the Federal Capital Territory by the Inspector-General of Police will not be allowed to stand,” Falana declared.
He complained that that it is principally aimed at stopping the demand for the unconditionally release of the Chibok girls from the illegal incarceration of the Boko Haram sect.
Falana contended that rather than “demonizing” the BBOG campaigners, the country owed them a duty “for upholding our collective humanity”.
“By accusing the BBOG campaigners of engaging in subversion by legitimately demanding for the abducted Chibok girls, the Inspector-General of Police has exposed the federal government to avoidable embarrassment. Since the BBOG members have demonstrated unprecedented courage and determination to continue to protest until Chibok girls are brought back home, the police and the security forces should be directed by President Muhammadu Buhari to desist from harassing them in any manner whatsoever and howsoever,” Falana stated.
IGP Ibrahim Idris had on Thursday, September 7, blasted the Bring Back Our Girls group over their activities in the Federal Capital Territory, saying that the group’s activities have become increasingly worrisome and constitute a threat to public peace and order.
As the discontentment persists, the Presidency faces the challenge of proving that the Buhari administration has respect for the rule of law, freedom and liberties of citizens in the country’s democracy.

			
			Post Views: 
			131