By Odunewu Segun
Corps Marshal of the Federal Safety Corps, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi has affirmed that there would be no shifts in deadline beyond the September 30, 2016 deadline for enforcement of compulsory installation of speed limiting devices.
As from October 1, 2016, FRSC said it would commence strict implementation of the regulation with focus on commercial vehicles and transport operators. Private and commercial – on the country’s roads are expected to have the device compulsorily installed on them in two years’ time.
“The final directive from the Presidency is clear: The enforcement date for the implementation of the speed limiting device is on Oct    ober 1 and we have had series of stakeholders meeting and the essence of today’s meeting is to finally convey the directive of the Federal Government to the stakeholders that with effect from October 1, the implementation and enforcement would commence”, the Corps Marshall remarked.
FRSC warned that from Saturday, owners of inter-state commercial vehicles intercepted for operating without installing the device, would have such vehicles impounded, “and they must come to our premises and fix the device before we release the vehicles”.
ALSO SEE: FRSC to arrest, fine motorists for over-speeding
The FRSC boss said that emphasis would be more on ensuring compliance and less on fine, “because if we insist on fine, many will pay when arrested, but will not go back to do the right thing…Our concern is not the money, but that every vehicle should have a speed limiting device so that we can make our roads a safe haven,” Oyeyemi said.
A resolution in the House of Representatives early in the year halting the project over what members said were the high cost of procuring the devices and lack of legal support, temporarily threw spanner in the works.  But the House later reversed its stance.
Seven months ago, the average price of a speed limiter was about N25, 000, but it was learnt last week that the exchange rate and other factors have combined to raise the price to a range between N35, 000 and N45, 000, depending on the brand and the vehicle model.
Contrary to the lawmaker’s argument that the corps lacks the power to introduce the device, the road safety promoters believe that the agency is performing its statutory function as contained in the FRSC Establishment Act and the National Road Traffic Regulation since 2004, and retained in the subsequent amendments.

			
			Post Views: 
			49