Share this on WhatsApp



By RICHARD ADENIYI
THE Director General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside has debunked the allegation that the ongoing restructuring of NIMASA was a vendetta and a ploy to weed out those whose employments were considered inappropriate.
Peterside debunked the allegation in an audience with the President of Maritime Reporters Association of Nigeria (MARAN), Mrs. Ifeyinwa Obi and other MARAN executive members who paid a courtesy visit to the director general in his office in Apapa, Lagos recently.
He said the restructuring, being fast-tracked by his administration, was an idea of maritime stakeholders who observed that NIMASA as presently constituted is performing expanded functions it inherited from JOMALIC under the garment of the old National Maritime Authority (NMA).
He noted that the restructure has to take place to avoid a possible collapse of the organisation, saying part of the restructure was to creating standard procedure for an effective maritime administration.
ALSO SEE: Search NIMASA NIMASA will anchor good security on stringent planning” — Dakuku
According to him, “There is no truth in the allegation that the restructuring is based on vendetta or inappropriate employments. It is in line with stakeholders observations. What we are doing is to fast-tracking the restructuring. I can assure Nigerians that the restructuring will not lead to reduction in staff strength.”
Peterside, who bemoaned the 51 percent drop in the inbound and outbound vessels to Nigerian ports and its implications on the nation’s economy, said the country is witnessing growth on its tonnage everyday despite the drop.
For his administration to succeed, the director general said his administration would continue to engage stakeholders at all times and encourage them to buy into the development of industry’s potentials.
In the area of security and safety, Peterside said port stakeholders misunderstood the role of NIMASA in area of safety vessels on our sea, saying NIMASA was not set up to go after pirates but it duty to create platform to effect enforcement of safety of vessels that are coming or leaving the shore of Nigeria.
He added that NIMASA would outsource the platform and assured that his administration would not compromise safety and security of the nation’s sea.
The NIMASA boss praised the role being played by maritime press towards the development of the industry and enjoined them not to relent.
Earlier in her address, MARAN President, Mrs. Ifeyinwa Obi said the agenda of the Director General for the industry would speed up rapid development of the industry and assured Dr. Peterside that the maritime press would work with him to actualise the agenda.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment