Share this on WhatsApp



From NWADIKE UGOCHUKWU,P/Harcout
THE Rivers State government has said it’s working concertedly with security agencies to tackle cases of kidnapping, cult-related violence and other forms of criminality perpetrated in various communities in the State.
The state governor, Chief Nyesom Ezenwo Wike stated this during the dedication of the re-model led Banham Methodist Cathedral, Port Harcourt and the inauguration of Most Rev. Sunday Agwu as the Archbishop of Port Harcourt.
The event also witnessed presentation of Elder Adindu Steve Ogamba as Diocesan Lay President of Port Harcourt.
Wike who was represented at the occasion by his Deputy, Dr. (Mrs.) Ipalibo Harry Banigo, said the efforts of Government were beginning to yield positive results as incessant kidnapping and cultism were fast fading away.
He assured of his administration’s readiness to partner the Church in providing physical and spiritual needs to the people, especially as the State and the Wike-led administration had been dedicated to God to direct its affairs.
ALSO SEE: Rivers APC tasks Buhari to end Rivers political violence
The governor thanked the Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria for the prayer offered for the present administration last year, stressing that the prayer points came to manifestation through the grace of God with the favourable verdict delivered by the Supreme Court on January 27.
Chief Wike congratulated the new Archbishop of Port Harcourt on his enthronement, completion of the re-model led Cathedral and condoled the Church and families of the two Bishops that died in an auto crash, and pray for the peaceful repose of their souls.
Also speaking, the Prelate, Methodist Church Nigeria, Dr. Samuel Kanu Uche said political leaders should be magnanimous in victory, pointing out that what happened in Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom and Rivers States remains a lesson for all to learn from.
Dr. Uche remarked that God is the one that puts people into positions of authority and whatever He ordains, no man can change and enjoined the Rivers State Government to work with the church in its drive to deliver dividends of democracy to the people of Rivers State.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment