From TOM GARBA, Yola
THE Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, in an interaction with Journalists in Yola, Adamawa State, said that Nigerians did not vote in the All Progressives Congress (APC) into power to be giving excuses over the lingering fuel scarcity. “Yes, we appreciate the feelings of Nigerians; we also go through it, because we are not immune to it. As a responsible government, a government that was propelled to power by the votes of the people, we cannot give excuses but empathize with them. And this government is working 24 hours to ensure that this problem is resolved,” Lai Mohammed stated Lai Mohammed was in the presidential entourage that visited Adamawa State led by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osibanjo, where they attended the wedding of the son of the Adamawa State Governor, Senator Mohammed Jibrilla Bindow. He reiterated that the fuel crisis would soon be over.
The minister reaffirming that Nigerians did not elect APC to give them excuses, maintained that the All Progressives Congress government, as a responsible government, has been doing everything possible to ease the current suffering of Nigerians resulting from fuel scarcity.
He said the Federal Government is working to ensure that in two weeks time, the commodity is made available in all parts of the country to alleviate the sufferings of Nigerians.
ALSO SEE: Tinubu launches indirect attack on Buhari
According to him, the government has already taken some steps in that direction. He said that, “some short term, medium and longer term measures are being taken,” noting that
“the question will be, what are we doing to alleviate this problem because that is what concern Nigerians.”
Part of the measures he highlighted include government’s appeal to the oil majors to make forex available to their companies operating in the downstream sector of the oil industry, adding that the difficulties encountered in getting foreign exchange was partly to blame for the fuel crisis.
Lai Mohammed who noted that other measures taken by the government is to open up the sector for smaller modular oil farms to be set up, however, stressed that the government was is not unaware that the ultimate is for the country to be self sufficient in the production of the commodity.
He added that once the government gets this done, it would solve the problem of the fuel crisis and, thus, alleviate the sufferings being faced by the people.

			
			PV: 
			0