From Left: Ohis Ehimiaghe, South African Airways Regional Manager, North, West & Central Africa; Fakunle Susan; Godwin Esurua both winners of all-expenses paid trip to South Africa and Zalia Hendricks, Office Manager of Legend Tours at the South African Airways holiday workshop for Travel Agencies in Abuja

        Share this on WhatsApp



By Isaac Tersoo Agber
South African Airways, Africa’s most awarded airline has taken a holistic approach to promote its brand in Nigeria and other destinations. The airline sensitised its Nigeria Travel Agencies in Abuja to sell complete holiday packages to South Africa and other destinations below a very cheap rate of NGN 200, 000. This will commence during the airline’s first holistic holiday workshop in Abuja, Nigeria.
The airline, in partnership with Legend Tours, a South-Africa-based Travel Management and Tour Company, explained to the Travel Agencies the importance of providing a complete travel package services to clients.
According to Ohis Ehimiaghe, South African Airways Regional Manager, North, West & Central Africa, this initiative is aimed at motivating the Travel Agencies to sell South African destinations and beyond.
“We at South African Airways are constantly looking for ways to improve our business strategy alongside our partners to ensure for a continuous win-win relationship at all times. It is in this vein that SAA is planning an all-inclusive travel package which will include flight ticket, hotel accommodation, ground transportation and tours that will cost about NGN200,000 (around USD1,000),” Ohis stated.
He stressed the importance of the Travel Agencies in Abuja to the overall sales strategy of South African Airways in Nigeria which underlines the reason why the airline is holding its first holistic holiday workshop in the Nigeria capital city.
ALSO SEE: SAA throws weight behind promoters of local tourism
Ohis explained to the over 120 Travel Agencies at the event saying: “Let me use this opportunity to inform you of South African Airways commitment to encouraging you to continue to sell our airline as a preferred carrier to your clients to the over 56 destinations we fly to. The annual SAA award ceremonies recognising top selling agents will be held in Abuja and Lagos and FAM Trips to South Africa will be evenly distributed to agencies in Lagos and Abuja.”
He further thanked the agencies for their overwhelming support during the recent inaugural flight of South African Airways to Abuja precisely January 27 this year which recorded over 70% outbound passengers.
Zalia Hendricks, Office Manager of Legend Tours assures the Travel Agencies of a seamless travel and tour packages to all South African destinations.
She mentioned that as a reputable Travel Management and Tour Company with over two decade of professional travel services, the partnership with South African Airways will afford the Nigerian Travel Agencies a simple but reliable platform to organise leisure and business tours to South Africa.
Two lucky Travel consultants, Godwin Esurua, Sales Manager, The Travel Place and Fakunle Susan, Reservations Officer at Tamaru Travels won an all-expenses paid trip to South Africa respectively courtesy of South African Airways; Legend Tours; Sun International and Tsogo Sun.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment