Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
The new C-class is sporty enough to find buyers among brand and style conscious or upwardly mobile customers who want to park a brand new three pointed star that can carry five people comfortably in their driveways.
It features distinctive and powerful front end, use of high-quality materials, sleek exterior bodywork and an attractive colorful scheme, better performance and higher energy efficiency. Compared to its predecessors, the C-Class engine is with lower CO2 emissions.
The new C-class powerful four cylinder engine also assures environmental compatibility and diligence as regards fuel consumption. All C-class models use the company’s tried and true 7-speed automatic transmission. With the BlueEFFICIENCY technology, fuel consumption is greatly minimized in the new C-Class.
It also comes with an intelligent drive system, which actively supports the driver and relieves his or her workload. It helps to analyze and monitor the vehicles environment in order to warn and identify potential dangers.
ALSO SEE: Mercedes-Benz S-Class Sedan: Effortless. Elegance. Power
Other available features in the C-Class include; leather upholstery, ventilated front seats, Audio-20-CD with touch-pad, a Burmester audio system, Mercedes’ COMAND infotainment system, navigation, a rearview camera, parallel parking assist, front and rear parking sensors, a head-up display, a Wi-Fi hot spot (requires subscription to Mercedes’ mbrace telematics service), pedestrian and cross traffic detection, a panoramic sunroof, adaptive cruise control, rear wheel drive, active lane keep assist, blind spot monitoring and a hands-free power trunk lid.
All-wheel drive (4Matic) is available in both sedan and coupe models.
“When it comes to traveling in style,” boasted, Nigeria’s main representative of the brand, Weststar Associates Limited, in a statement made available to National Daily “Mercedes-Benz C-Class is here to stay particularly with its elegant features and specially assembled components.”
According to Weststar, the new vehicle which is now in Nigeria is backed with up-to-the-minute after-sales at all authorized Mercedes-Benz dealership network across the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment