Share this on WhatsApp



By Eben Enasco Kingsley, Benin City
A female gospel singer has been found dead in hotel room in Benin City hours after performing at a church programme in Warri, Delta State.
It was alleged that the female singer identified as Mrs Yvonne Omoraebohae, was allegedly found dead in Prenox Hotel on Joromi Street, Off Airport Road, Benin City, last Friday.
When our reporter visited the hotel last Monday, the manager was said to have been out, as he is yet to respond to a message left with his receptionists as at press time.
It was gathered that the singer, mother of a three-year old child was invited to perform at a church programme in Warri by a Lagos-based Pastor, one Apostle Psalm Okpe, whom she met on Facebook.
She was alleged to have been lodged into the hotel on Friday by the pastor (name of Ministry withheld).
Husband of the deceased Mr Odion Omoraebokhae state that his wife met Apostle Psalm on Facebook. After months of chatting, she was invited by the Pastor to perform in Warri, Delta State, last Thursday.
Mr Odion alleged that his wife was told by Apostle Psalm that she would perform in Warri, Asaba and Benin City where the programme was scheduled to hold, and thereafter in South Africa.
He however revealed that his wife called him about 10am last Friday that she would be home soon.
“At about 9:30pm, the police used my wife phone to call and invited me to report at the Airport Road police station.
“I waited for more than two hours at the police station until the police asked me to go home but I insisted on knowing the whereabouts of my wife.
“The DPO later told me that my wife was picked at a hotel in the GRA and rushed to the Benin Central hospital where she was confirmed dead.
“I am yet to see the corpse of my wife to know what happen and who is responsible for her death. We have a three-year old baby at home.” Mr Odion stated.
Contacted, the Commissioner of Police, Edo State Mr Chris Ezike, confirmed the death of the woman and said the matter was under investigation.
Ezike said a post mortem examination will confirm the cause of death.
Not until a post mortem is conducted, we cannot conclude what happened. I have asked the matter to be transferred to the State CID.” CP Ezike stated.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment