Share this on WhatsApp



IN furtherance of their efforts to continually strengthen the corporate vision and agenda of their agencies, National Pension Commission (PenCom) recently, entered into partnership agreement with Financial Market Dealer Quotation Over the Counter Securities Exchange (FMDQ OTC).
In her opening address, the PenCom DG acknowledged and commended FMDQ on its positive impact and giant strides in the development of the Nigerian Financial System, and noted that this Regulatory Supervision Collaboration Agreement executed with the Exchange will serve to enable the realisation of PenCom’s investment objectives of safety of pension assets and maintenance of fair returns on investment.
According to the MD/CEO of FMDQ Mr. Bola Onadele, the partnership will seek to achieve, among other things the Commission’s objectives (as outlined in the Pension Reform Act, 2014), through data access and visibility of its supervisees’ (Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs)) transactions on FMDQ; improved transparency of all PFAs’ transactions in the Nigerian fixed income market, as well as the money market through the applicable system(s); capacity building sessions for relevant PenCom Staff on the use of the applicable system(s); and the development of performance benchmarks for fixed income asset classes: bonds (sovereign, sub-national and corporate), money market securities (treasury bills, commercial papers etc.) and fixed deposits.
ALSO SEE: Search PENCOM How PenCom douses picketing plan by TUC
Whilst delivering the special address of FMDQ Chairman, Ms. Daisy Ekineh, Independent Non-Executive Director at FMDQ, stated that, “this ceremony marks the formalisation of a partnership expected to be formidable and long-standing, as it will bring about integrity of service, assured investor protection and fair return on investments, serving to fundamentally change the way in which our financial markets operate to the benefit of the nation’s investors, in particular, the pension assets, and ultimately the Nigerian economy.”
In a joint statement issued by PenCom and FMDQ at the end of the ceremony, the partners stated that the agreement is indeed a landmark achievement as this partnership will serve to change the face of the Nigerian financial markets from the buy-side perspective towards investor protection, integrity of service, fair return on investments and ultimately the development of the nation’s economy.
The formalizing of the co-signing of a Regulatory Supervision Collaboration Agreement at a brief Ceremony recently at the Commission’s office in Abuja, were the Director-General of PenCom, Mrs. Chinelo Anohu-Amazu, the Chair, Board Regulation and Risk Management Committee, FMDQ, represented by Ms. Daisy Ekineh, FMDQ, Managing Director/CEO, FMDQ, Mr. Bola Onadele. Koko, key representatives of the Central Bank of Nigeria Banking (CBN) Supervision and Financial Markets Departments and other key representatives from FMDQ and PenCom.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment