Share this on WhatsApp
By Ediale Kingsley
 
Nigerians have never lacked ideas, but the time has come for the nation to transform brilliant ideas into reality by diligently following-up on plans and coming together to achieve objectives.
 
This view was expressed today by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, while receiving at the Presidential Villa, a delegation of Nigerian CEOs who attended the Indian Manufacturing Conclave-an industrial conference- last month in New Delhi.
 
“Almost all of us are certain about what the country needs to do but the critical problem is the capacity to get things done. What is important is what we do with all the ideas,” according to the Vice President.

Prof. Osinbajo listened to the conference experiences from the trip shared by members of the delegation, including on different sectors and areas of the economy such as Power & Energy, ICT, Maritime, Financing, SMEs etc.

The Vice President then commended the business leaders for their efforts and the visit to his office, adding that “Nigerians know what to do, but the time has come to really work on getting things done. The problem has been on how to really get things done.”

ALSO SEE: Umahi’s mum, a Christian icon — Osinbajo

He called on all Nigerians in their different callings and endeavors to work together, adding that it is the intention of the Buhari presidency “to look for ways that the important sectors of our national life will work together, and also get key sectors to work together with the government.”

Besides, the Vice President noted government’s determination to encourage ‘Made in Nigeria’ products including electric meters needed for billing. He also encouraged linkages between federal research agencies and industry in order to develop local technological innovations.

Earlier, the leader of the delegation, Mr. Osaro Eghabamen, SAN, commended the government for facilitating a public and private sectors’ collaboration regarding the Conclave in India, and this according to him, enabled the delegation learn a lot especially in the areas of ICT, ship building and using SMEs to grow the economy among others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment