Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) Ajaero faction, flays the Federal Government privatization policy in vital sectors of the nation’s economy,noting that President Muhammad Buhari poise to increase power generation to 10,000 Megawatts is clearly unattainable,stressing it takes four years to build a power station.
Comrade Ajaero made this assertion, while making public the communique of the Central Working Committee(CWC) of the Nigeria Labour Congress, at the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) headquarters in Lagos recently.
He noted the time is now, for government to substantiate if the supply of electricity and fuel are business or social services.
“The commanding heights of our economy must be safeguarded by the government”. Ajearo affirms.
The communique also speak to the scourge of unemployment, noting the alarming proportion that portends danger for the nation with able bodied men not gainfully employed, the NLC urge the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency nationwide to address unemployment.
ALSO SEE: Tribal row rocks NUBIFIE,group fingers NLC crisis connection
On the anti-graft war, the communiqué notes with disdain the lone posture of President Mohammad Buhari waging the war while his lieutenant douse its intensity by their actions and inaction.
The President was however counseled to make public the summation of the supposed recovered loots and channel it to addressing salient needs of the citizenry, as well as punish unscrupulous individuals engaged in such illicit act, noting only these steps could make anti-corruption war a needful venture with direct impact on the economy.
Ajaero also noted that it’s not yet Uhuru in the NLC, as the issues agreed upon at the previous reconciliatory meeting were neither implemented nor enforce till now.
According to him,we now have two labour groups, one for the government and one for the people and that is the one I lead.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment