Share this on WhatsApp







By Lanre Adesanya
The Joint Committee saddled with onerous task of working out budgetary provisions for the for 20 Local Governments and 37 Local Council Development Areas” in the state, has submitted its report to Lagos State House of Assembly.
The report was laid before the House by the chairman of the joint Committee on Economic Planning and Budget, Public Account (Local) and Local Government and Administration, Hon. Rotimi Olowo who represents Shomolu Constituency I.
Meanwhile, the Committee has started given out to the Local Governments and Local Council Development Areas Executive Secretaries and Budget Officers the details of their proposed Y2016 budget as proposed by the Committee.
Hon. Olowo said the House is carrying out its constitutional duty by preparing this proposed budget in the absence of the chairmen and councilors for the LGs and LCDAs.
He however reiterated that the Executive Secretaries and their management team should try as much as possible to ensure strict compliance to the provision of the law as regards expenditure and revenue generations.
ALSO SEE: Lagos assembly eulogizes Tinubu, mourns Braithwaite
“The Committee has worked diligently considering different factors before presenting this budget” he stated.
The chairman commended all the LGs and LCDAs Executive secretaries and their team for their supports and cooperation during the Committee’s exercise for supplying the Committee with detailed information and documents which were vital for Y2016 Appropriation.
While addressing the team, he enjoined them to make sure that their budget performance translated into infrastructural development at the grassroot level.
“Your performance must be the same across board; if your performance is 75% in overhead, it must be at pal in capital expenditure; that is 75% as well,” he stated.
 In the same vein, Hon. Adefunmilayo Tejuoso, Chairman Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights, Public Petitions and LASIEC laid reports on: A bill for a law to amend the Local Government Election Tribunal Law, 2001 and for connected purposes; and a bill for a law to amend the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission Law, 2008 and for connected purposes.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment