Share this on WhatsApp



By Chioma Obinagwam
The Executive Secretary / Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRC), Mr. Jim Obazee, has emerged African Best Rated Leadership Personality of the Year in the public sector category.
According to a statement issued by the Media/Communications Consultant to FRC, Mr. Mack Ogbamosa, the award was bestowed on the FRC boss by the African Development Magazine (ADM) in appreciation of his remarkable contributions to Leadership/Financial Sector in Africa at a ceremony held in Accra, Ghana over the weekend.
Conferring the award on   Obazee at the 5th ADM International Conference & Award of Excellence ceremony, the Publisher of the Magazine, Mr. Ayo Ilesanmi described the award as a mark of recognition of the roles the awardee has been playing as the CEO of FRC in sanitizing the nation’s financial sector through formulation and enforcement of financial standards.
ALSO SEE: Julius Berger 2015 profit Drops 70.4%, Offers N1.50 per share dividend
Obazee, on his part, dedicated the award to the members of staff of FRC, declaring that the award was in recognition of the crucial roles the Council’s staff have been playing in ensuring that players in the economy play in accordance with the rules.
He said the impact of FRC enforcement of accounting, auditing, actuarial and valuation standards are already being felt in this era of adherence to rules, regulations and standards as the hallmark of the ‘Change Administration’ led by President Muhammadu Buhari.
ALSO SEE: Fidson Declares 3.67% pretax profit drop in 2015
He noted that in line with standards established under the Financial Reporting Act No 6 of 2011, the FRC is charged with regulating accounting, auditing, actuarial and valuation standards as well as issue and maintain codes of corporate governance to ensure transparency and accountability in both public and private sectors of the country’s economy.
As Executive Secretary/CEO of the FRC, Obazee has won many awards both within and outside the country for his doggedness and remarkable achievements with the Council in making sure that businesses are conducted in the country in line with laid down rules and standards.
The awards include African Par Excellence Award 2015 by the International Centre for Comparative Leadership for Africans & Blacks in Diaspora and Accolades International Magazine Limited, Public Administrator of the Year,  award by the ‘The Fashion & Life International Conference & Achievements Awards, Lifetime Achievement Award for Competency/Distinctiveness in Public service by ‘Nigeria Media Nite-Out Award 2015, among others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment