Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
Exactly two years of unending and fruitless search for the remaining 219 abducted Chibok Girls, the Bring Back Our Girls Group, Lagos restates determination to engage the state till the girls are rescued no matter what.
The BBOG group which held a time out under the Falomo bridge in commemoration of the two years hostage experienceThursday evening which climaxed in a peaceful protest rally the next day from Allen Junction to Lagos House at Alausa , entertained varied views and contributions  from the crowd cladded in the usual red tops, some registering their detest for seeming inactive mien of the federal government in its poise to tackle the security challenges hapless Nigerians encountered over the years.
The advocacy group led by Mrs. Habiba Balogun and host of others in the struggle, placed a number of demands on the door step of the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode who was not on hand to receive them, due to the periodic town hall meeting held at Ikorodu, where he renders stewardship account to Lagosians.
ALSO SEE: BBOG: How ex-PM Brown got singed by a U.S. policy fireball
The BBOG demands the following; that the Governor table’s the need for government to deliver on their mandate, to also expedite action on full rehabilitation of Nigerians in Lagos IDP camps, as well as reviewing security arrangements in schools to ensure children’s safety all round the state,concerted efforts should however be made to rescue abducted Chibokgirls.
In the same vein,Members of the Lagos State House of Assembly on Thursday urged the Federal Government to direct all necessary security personnel to rescue the missing Chibok girls from Boko Haram.
The Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa called on the Federal Government to direct necessary security personnel and agencies to intensify rescue mission to free the Chibok girls and re-unite them back with their parents
 The Speaker empathized with the Chibok parents, the school and the state government “we appreciate all other countries that have been supporting Nigeria in a bid to rescue the Chibok girls”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment