Share this on WhatsApp



By IFEOMA IKEM
STEALING in commercial buses in Lagos has been described to be yielding more money than selling second hand clothes.
This was part of a confessional statement made by 26-year-old, Uba Kenneth, a dealer in second hand wears in Lagos Island. He said he embraced stealing because it yields more money for him rather than staying under the scorching sun and heavy rains to sell.
“I abandoned my business December last year when the dollar rose hence I couldn’t continue with my business,” he said.
The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni who paraded the criminal and 18 other hoodlums at the state command recently urged residents to be vigilant and cautious of their surrounding especially when they notice unknown movement and should report promptly to the nearest police station.
It was gathered that the 18 hoodlums who specialised in pick pocket at various bus stops across the state were rounded up within the last one week by the Lagos state Police command.
The suspects were nabbed from different locations as they allegedly disguised as bus passengers within the state metropolis and stole from passengers going between Mile 2 -Oshodi routes.
ALSO SEE: Police arrest two brothers for defiling two minors
Uba confessed that his area of operation is Mile 2 Oshodi. “I operate twice in a week. We strike at different locations and disguised as bus passengers. When any of our gangs stopped any commercial bus and discovered that a gang member is inside, we would not enter again. We will wait for another bus.
“Before I board any bus, I usually stand at the bus-stop to recce and watch passengers to know the one that has good money on him. You know Lagosians are always in haste especially those that have their earpiece on. Once, I succeeded in picking money from their purse or other valuables from their pockets, I quickly disembark from the bus and cross over to the other side of the road to avoid being arrested in case the victim discovers on time. The best time we operate is during closing hours when human traffic is heaviest or midday.”
Asked how he was caught since he claimed to have had the antidote against arrest, he said, “I was not caught in the act, rather, it is one of our partners in crime who was arrested that brought police to my hotel room where I was cooling off enjoying my loot after a successful operation.”
Also paraded by CP Fatai Owoseni was a 35-year-old ex-convict, Abudulamdi Ibrahim, who stole from banks while pretending to be a customer.National Daily gathered that Abudulamdi usually went to the bank with a Ghana-Must-Go bag with carefully cut to size N1, 000 denomination pretending he wanted to deposit some money. He was alleged to have taken a gun from the bag and attacked the cashier.
ALSO SEE: 17-yr-old girl raped by Lebanese boss gives birth in police barracks
Denying the allegation, the suspect said that, “I am not a robber. I never robbed with a gun but watch banks environment for vulnerable customers. First City Monument Bank (FCMB) has been very careless. I usually go to the bank pretending that
I wanted to pay some cash or withdraw. I went straight to the bulk room to monitor the environment.
“After sufficiently monitoring the environment, I stand by the counter close to the cashier as if I want to deposit money. While there, I focus my attention on any customer with bulk money to pay inside polythene bag. Within splits of seconds, if the customer loses concentration or distracted, I will swap my polythene bag containing cut-to-size papers with the victim’s own containing money while pretending to be asking the cashier questions and leave immediately.
“I collected N1.2 million this year when I went there from bulk room. I didn’t go there with a gun. I succeeded in stealing from the bank because the bank operatives were careless. I am not a robber; I use the money I got to invest in my drug business which yielded N2.2m as profit.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment