Share this on WhatsApp



AS fuel scarcity persists in the country, most people now buy petrol way above the normal N86.50 price. They now buy as high a N250 or N300 waiting for hours in long queues under harsh weather conditions.
Aside from the physical exhaustion that comes with the long queues, Nigerians are also complaining of the impact on their businesses. “It is a terrible experience to behold,” says Tunji, a cybercafé operator in Ikeja. “Queuing for long hours not even certain of fueling your car; it is quite frustrating and exhausting. Imagine being on queue and a business associate is calling to transact a business? He queried.
Also in Igando area of Lagos, another concerned Nigerian said there are several people as expected due to the normal price which is N86:50 at a particular Total filling station in the area. The manager has firm control of the surging crowd, and was assisted by some military guys in maintaining orderliness but other filling stations are selling for between N150 and N250 per litre.
In Ojodu berger area, a resident who volunteered to speak said most filling stations in my location (Alagole) has the product “There are no queues actually because of the price. However, there are massive queues in stations selling at govt prices.”
ALSO SEE: Fuel scarcity and matters arising
“In some filling stations, they don’t sell until late in the evening, and at a very high price, just like the market marketers. Infact there is no difference between some of the filling stations and black market’ he explained
“In my area, Ajalekki Lagos, they are selling at the normal price 86.50k but you must be on queues from morning till evening before getting the product,” a motorist said.
National Daily gathered that the situation is the same in other States, for instance, in Abeokuta, the capital of Ogun State; very long queues are seen at NNPC filling stations. which I cannot bear,” . “Major petroleum marketers such as Conoil, Total, etc are not selling as their stations are closed for operation and individual marketers are selling at N170.”
From Ikare Akoko, one of Ondo State’s major cities, information gathered showed that there are no much queues at few private filling stations that are selling because of the increased in prices.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment