Share this on WhatsApp



ROADS are inevitable Infrastructure that opens up communities, enhance communication with other neighboring communities, facilitate transportation which will significantly usher in development that has power to turn a rural area to urban mega centre.
This belief informs the reason why most communities cry to government for access roads to enable their communities experience growth and development like their counterparts in the rural areas.
Governor Willie Obiano understands this fact and has never allowed the tempo of road networking in the state die off. In fulfilment of his CCC mandate of Complete,
Commission and Commence to Ndi Anambra, Obiano has completed and equally commissioned majority of the projects which include road projects he inherited from his predecessor, as a believer of the principles of continuity in governance and for the sake of love he has for the people of Anambra. This reflects in his notion not to play politics with the hopes, aspirations, welfare and well-being of the people. However, it is worthy to note that he did this in a record time.
Governor Obiano has remarkably increased the tempo of infrastructures development by flagging off projects which run into billions of naira.
ALSO SEE: Ihiala people applaud Obiano’s performance 
According to a statement by Kingsley Ezekwelu, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media, the projects under construction under the supervision of Governor Obiano include Oye Utuh-Akwuata Court Road Nnewi South Local Government Area, Awkuzu SARS junction-Abute square Nando, 6 No Roads with flood control at Aguleri, St. Monica’s road Ogbunike, Road linking Ngozika Housing Estate- Abakiliki road, St. Thomas Church Egbu ORIZU Junction to Egbu Umuenem Otolo Nnewi-Awka etiti road and Ozubulu-Ihembosi-Ukpor road.
Others include Access road to Cosharis Farm Anaku, Aguleri Otuocha Road-Umuleri Airport road, Umunya road, Nteje airport road, Umueje-Mmiata Anam- Nzam Road, Nando junction-(Onitsha)/Adani road and many others.
Roads recently commissioned by the governor include the Owerre Ezukala-Umuchukwu-Ogbunka road, Ndiowu roads, Nwafor Orizu college of Education, Okpuno roads- Goodwill road, Enugu Ukwu-Nimo-Okacha Junction, Neni road and Ideani-Uke road.
Not just the roads, Awka has become symbolic with the 3 gigantic flyovers which has added to the aesthetics of the capital city. The tempo of work on the 3 flyovers is tremendous as the construction company handling the projects have never been found culpable of laxity; all thanks to the provision of the needed funds by the governor.
These roads are of essence to these communities as it opens opportunity for the economic and political developments in these places. These rural places which are mainly agrarian communities, now have means to transport their commodities to many places to trade. With these access roads, Anambra is on the verge of economic explosion.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment