Share this on WhatsApp



By ODIMMEGWA JOHNPETER, Abuja
THE Inspector-General of Police Mr. Solomon Arase has commiserated with the National Youth Service Corps and the family of Corps member Okonta Dumebi Samuel, who was killed by unknown gunmen during the March re-run legislative elections in Rivers State.
Arase was speaking today when the NYSC Director-General Brigadier General Sule Kazaure paid him a courtesy visit at the Force Headquarters, Abuja.
He said the Police had always collaborated with INEC and the NYSC with a view to ensuring the safety of all Corps members during elections, and expressed regrets that the murder of the Okonta occurred despite the security strategies put in place.
He expressed delight at the Director-General’s visit within a few days of the latter’s assumption of duty noting that it underscored the importance he attached to the relationship between the two agencies.
The IGP reaffirmed the commitment of the Nigeria Police to its collaboration with the NYSC, especially as regards safety during elections as well as orientation course periods.
ALSO SEE: We will pay Corps members’ outstanding allowances — NYSC
He said the commitment of the force informed its decision to assign a very senior officer to coordinate liaison with the Scheme.He wished the NYSC helmsman a successful tenure while assuring him of his support.
Earlier, the Director-General Brigadier General Sule Kazaure said the visit to the Inspector-General was in recognition of the role of the Nigeria Police as a critical stakeholder in the NYSC, and went on to call for the strengthening of the existing relationship between the two agencies.
“I came to identify with the IGP because of the collaboration between our organizations. As the saying goes, ‘two heads are better than one’ so, there is strength in collaboration,” he said.
Kazaure thanked the Inspector-General for the support the NYSC had always been enjoying from the police, especially through the provision of security in all camps during orientation courses.
He informed him that the 2016 Batch ‘A’ Orientation course would commence on April 27, 2016 and solicited the usual support of the force in the protection of orientation camps.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment