Share this on WhatsApp



By Isaac Tersoo Agber
Ethiopian Airlines, the fastest growing airline in Africa, has announced that it will commence scheduled flights to New York-Newark from Addis Ababa on 03 July 2016, via Lomé, Togo. The flights will be scheduled to take place three times a week base on high demand from travelers on this route.
The airline said it will be deploying the modern Boeing 787 Dreamliner on this route, which not only offers unparalleled onboard comfort to passengers, but is also the world’s most environmentally friendly aircraft with its lower carbon and noise emissions.
The airline said its Boeing 787 Dreamliner is configured with 24 business class and 246 economy seats, all of which are equipped with Ethiopian’s renowned audio-visual inflight entertainment consoles. The schedule for this new flight will be as follows: Passengers will be able to connect between New York-Newark and many cities throughout Africa. At Lomé, passengers will enjoy seamless connections to/from points in West Africa with ASKY, Ethiopian partner airline based in Lomé. Connections will be available to/from Abidjan, Bamako, Bissau, Brazzaville, Conakry, Dakar, Douala, Kinshasa, Lagos, Libreville, N’djamena, Niamey, Ouagadougou and Yaoundé. At Addis Ababa, passengers will enjoy seamless connections to/from points in East and Southern Africa, including Nairobi, Dares Salaam, Khartoum, Kampala, Kigali, and Johannesburg.
ALSO SEE: Ethiopian Airline wins the hearts of South Eastern Nigerians
Group CEO of Ethiopian Airlines, Mr. Tewolde GebreMariam, remarked, “We are thrilled to resume our service to New York, our fifth gateway in the Americas. New York is one of the world’s most economically powerful cities and including it in our ever expanding network will play a critical role in the expansion of trade, tourism and investment between the fast growing continent of Africa and the United States. I would like to thank all who strived hard to make the route possible.” New York-Newark becomes Ethiopian’s 93rd international gateway and 4th gateway in North America.
Ethiopian currently operates daily nonstop flights from Washington DC to Addis Ababa, as well as three weekly nonstop flights from Toronto to Addis Ababa and three weekly flights from Los Angeles to Addis Ababa via Dublin. Ethiopian is expanding its network rapidly. In the past year has introduced services to Tokyo, Manila, Dublin, Los Angeles, Cape Town, Durban, Gaborone, Yaoundé, and Goma.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment