Share this on WhatsApp
…..urge them to use social media positively

Nigerians, especially young women, have been charged to take necessary proactive measures to prevent cancer and nip it in the bud.

A health promotion specialist and lifestyle consultant, Dr Abimbola Solanke, gave the advice at a sensitization seminar on health and education related issue, organized by Lasses Education and Healthcare initiative (LEHI) in collaboration with the Ekiti State Ministry of Education, Science and Technology for secondary school students in Ado Local government Area.

Dr Solanke listed the likely symptoms of breast cancer to include breast lumps,rashes or discharge from the breast, retraction of pointed nipples, shrinking, thickening as well as unusual change in the texture of the skin around the breast, urging females to endeavour to regularly conduct self breast examination, particularly immediately after their monthly period.

The resource person identified Fibrodenomas and testicular cancer as the most common among young people, stressing that early detection is the best way to tackle the deadly disease.

In another lecture at the seminar centering on career choice and entrepreneurial skills, Mrs. Yemi Ologunde pointed out that it is imperative for students to seek counsel, welcome assessment by others, conduct self appraisal, seek information and know the right subject options to guide their career choices. She also encouraged them to acquire entrepreneurial skills as a good alternative in the face of unemployment.

ALSO SEE: Enigma of opposition without bound

In her lecture on Etiquette, proper conduct and effective use of the social media, Mrs Anthonia Owoeye enlightened the students on the value of decent behaviour in public, good manners, dignity and integrity while urging them to utilize the social media for education, communication, job search and business purposes instead of surfing the net for immoral and worthless items.

The Executive Director of LEHI, Mrs. Opeyemi Dapo Alade said the organization is keen on filling noticeable lapses in the society which she attributed to wickedness, unemployment, callousness, ritual purposes, obscene broadcasts, indecent dressing, influence of alcohol and drugs among others, noting that rape could be prevented through vigilance, avoidance of bad company, group walking, proper dressing, parental guidance, self defence acts and raising alarm swiftly.

Alade advised victims of rape to endeavour to visit counsellors, discuss with confidants and seek access to quality medical care so as to overcome the attendant trauma.

Commissioner for education in Ekiti State, Mr. Jide Egunjobi, who earlier declared the workshop opened applauded LEHI for coming up with the seminar which addressed germane issues affecting the young generation, thereby charged parents and teachers to work together in giving the youth rounded education.

The Seminar which came up at Christ Girls School in Ado Ekiti was described by the Grand Patron of LEHI, Engineer Mike Dada as a timely eye opener, while participants said the programme had updated and upgraded their knowledge.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment