Share this on WhatsApp



…assures customers of genuine parts
By Odunewu Segun
Weststar Associates Limited, major distributor of the Mercedes-Benz and Dodge Durango brands of vehicles in Nigeria has unveiled the new 2016 Dodge Durango.
According to the company, both the RT and Citadel variants of the vehicle are now available at its showrooms. This spacious seven-seated SUV possesses sufficient best-in-class features to keep passengers basking in the euphoria of this family size vehicle.
While assuring customers of the availability of genuine spare parts for the new arrival, Weststar Associates stated that the new Dodge Durango exudes luxury with its plush interiors and comfortable seating arrangement.
The new Dodge Durango comes with an eight speed automatic transmission powered by a 3.6L Pentastar® V6 engine or a 5.7L HEMI® V8 engine that gives it iconic characteristics of a Dodge muscle car. Also standard on the vehicle is the Engine Stop/Start (ESS) technology that helps to improve fuel efficiency by shutting off the engine when the vehicle comes to a complete stop. The engine automatically restarts when the driver releases the brake, thus, allowing smooth acceleration.
ALSO SEE: All-new Toyota Fortuner arrives Africa
The fierce split-cross hair grille with dark or bright accents is a major highlight of the Dodge Durango’s exterior. Striking projector headlamps with embossed Dodge logo, projector fog lamps and available LED daytime running lights informs other road users of its grand presence while the full-width LED race track tail lamps reminds others why Dodge is always a step ahead.
A standard seven inch reconfigurable digital cluster and an 8.4 inch Uconnect® screen are available for communication, navigation and entertainment. Passengers can enjoy a wonderful audio experience with the BeatsTM system which includes an additional 50 watts of power per channel, nine premium speakers, a 506-watt amplifier and a subwoofer. The available Blu-rayTM/DVD system boasts two nine-inch screens and High-Definition Multimedia Interfaces (HDMI) for the rear seats while the HDMI /USB ports let passengers tap into the entertainment system and use each screen independently of each other.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment