Share this on WhatsApp



…lock down Disco
By Lanre Adesanya
Teeming members of the public angry about the unavailability of power supply and the purported tariff increase which takes more from the masses with less commensurate service,  picketed the Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company(IKEDC), with a vow not to back down, till their plight is adequately addressed.
The aggrieved group under the aegis of Citizen Access to Electricity Initiative in collaboration with some labour unions, besieged the IKEDC entrance in protest of fraudulent manners of the said Disco to Lagos residents.
The group alleged that the Disco sacked 400 staffers who at one time or the other were recipients of meritorious service awards on trump up charges, stressing the need to recruit more staff for efficient delivery, rather than laying them off.
One of the aggrieved individuals from Itire/Ikate stated that,“It is high time metering is taken seriously to correct the anomaly in the sector, we would stop paying the bills till when we can ascertain a fair deal, give us prepaid meters, we are paying more for the electricity but getting nothing, power is plummeting by the day”.
ALSO SEE: Again, Labour pickets Ikeja facilities, paralyses electricity supply
Nigeria Labour Congress secretary Lagos, Mr. Charles noted that, “400 staffers of IKEDC were dismissed not minding the fact that they were merit award recipients, the dismissal is an indication  that they have no interest to deliver, we demand the immediate recall of the said workers,we are prepared to hinder activities here till they accede to our demands.
“This is a testimony that when the people are frustrated they will react,here you have individuals from all sides of Lagos in protest, this is day four and we are resolute with our demands, tariff increase is not sensitive move, Fashola should take note of this, check round all the Discos they are all left over of PHCN, nothing new has been added so far in fact the Federal Government own 40 percent of the properties they are using so from the increased tariff they they will earn more at the expense of the masses it is not fair”.
The group also stage a protest at the frontage of the Lagos State House of Assembly and were addressed by the Speaker Hon. Mudashiru Obasa.
According to the Speaker, I commend your comportment and how you registered your plight, we share the same experience,it is not our responsibility to provide electricity, though the state generated power through IPP, but can’t distribute due to constitutional boundaries, we will support you  by making a case for you through our resolution, there is a limit  to what we can do as per re-absorption of those sacked. We will call on necessary quarters to do the needful. Manage your anger avoid riot.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment