Share this on WhatsApp



The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Solomon Arase, on Monday launched a-1004 units of housing projects at Gousa town, in the Federal Capitaal Territory (FCT) Abuja with a view to providing decent accommodation for officers and rank and file of the force.
He said the project was being undertaken by the Nigeria Police Force Property Development Company in conjunction with Shelter Afrique and UN Habitat, a partnership that would lead to the construction of 25, 000 units of low cost houses for officers across the country.
Describing it as an “epoch-making event which marks the ground breaking of the construction of low-cost houses for officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force,” added that the launch symbolizes the continuation of efforts of the Force leadership to address one of the most fundamental challenges facing officers and men – access to decent accommodation for themselves and their supportive families.
Arase, explained that the event was a historic step towards advancing the welfare oriented policing component of his Strategic Police Plans as the IGP.
As part of his welfare scheme for officers, IGP Arase observed that similar projects have been completed and handed over to members of the rank and file cadre in Katsina, Adamawa, Edo and Enugu States, an initiatives made possible through the incorporation of the Nigeria Police Force Property Development Company which engaged direct labour using assets in the Logistics and Supply Department to construct such houses.
ALSO SEE: Bribery is a ‘product of fear of the unknown’, Police boss Arase says
He added that in addition to the foregone, the Force has also been partnering with Private developers and just recently, the Brick City Housing Project in Kubwa which was also commissioned under the Public-Private partnership initiative.
He said, “The uniqueness of today’s event, however, rests on the fact that this is the first time that international bodies will be collaborating with the Nigeria Police Force for purpose of addressing the housing needs of the personnel of the Force.
“This represents an increasing confidence of the international bodies in not just the Nigeria Police Force, but in the Federal Government. It is also pertinent to mention that this is reflective of the outcome of the series of diplomatic shuttles undertaken by President Mohammadu Buhari towards the enhancement of national security.
Since assumption of office, provision of accommodation for officers and men of the force has been a top priority for IGP Arase. Late last year, blocks of flat was commissioned at Idimu for officers to ease their accommodation needs in addition to other welfare initiatives.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment