Share this on WhatsApp



By Kingsley Chukwuka,Jos
The Plateau State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has zoned its Chairmanship position to the Northern zone of Plateau State. This is much so as the governorship position has also been zoned to Plateau Southern zone.
The Central zone was however left out of the PDP Chairmanship seat as the last Chairman of the party in the person of Dr. Haruna Dabin was from the Central Zone.
It was also gathered that part of the decision to zone the party’s number one seat in the state to the Northern zone, was to further douse the sentiment that marred the party’s destiny at the 2015 gubernatorial election, where the then incumbent from the Northern zone, Jonah David Jang (now senator), allegedly imposed a successor from his constituency to fly the party’s flag at the polls.
However, the Coalition of PDP Patriots, Plateau North, on Wednesday rose from its zonal meeting to salute the resolution of the State Executive Council (SEC), on the decision to bring the PDP apex seat to their home.
ALSO SEE; APC jittery over PDP’s threat on Senate Presidency
Also the Northern zone has further zoned the most prime seat in the party to some specific Local Government Councils, excluding the Berom tribe for some obvious political reasons with prejudice to the political future of other tribes within Plateau North.
In a statement signed by the Chairman of Plateau Coalition of PDP Patriots, Plateau North, Emmanuel Loman and made available to our Correspondent, it states in part that “the resolutions by the State Executive Committee (SEC) on zoning positions to the State Executive Council of the Party in the forthcoming Congresses and the Northern Zonal Meeting at which the positions to zone were further zoned to the constituent LGAs, is laudable. Saying that the said resolutions were endorsed by the Coalition as being consistent with the spirit and letter of the Constitution of the PDP and as well as the principles of zoning”.
“Furthermore, the Coalition took exception to the clandestine efforts of some Party members outside the Northern Zone who are instigating dissent through the spreading of half truths and subterfuge”.
“The Coalition called on all Party members to close ranks to rebuild the Party; to respect leadership and; to disagree without being disagreeable”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment