Share this on WhatsApp
By Eben Enasco Kingsley, Benin City

A Governorship hopeful under the platform of All Progressive Congress in the forthcoming Edo State gubernatorial elections Godwin Obaseki has promised the people of Edo State to link education with real life to ensure that youths benefits, if he is elected the next governor of the state

Mr. Obaseki made the pledge in a town hall meeting at Exchequer Event Center on the Theme: ‘The Role of the Youth in Governance,’ organized by Street to Street Organization, a non-political forum in Benin City.

While addressing the mammoth crowed that throng into the venue of the event to drum support for his candidacy, the governorship hopeful established that it was of premium interest to empower the youths in his agenda; asserting that infrastructure, education and agriculture remains his key focus to engage and tackle unemployment in the state.

ALSO SEE: Fayose’s aide blasts APC chieftains for discrediting letter on China loan

He said, “We have to be value creative people. Nigeria today spends so much on what we do not produce and if we don’t make a drastic change we would regret it soon.

“A key area to make such change is agriculture which will help to engage the unemployed youths. We have to review our curriculum particularly in our educational system to link it with real life.

“We can make that change by ensuring that the right trained personnel is fixed in the suited position in governance.”

Earlier, the organizer of the town hall meeting Comrade Israel Joe thanked participants for their support while urging all to continue to embark on program that is youth friendly; asserting that, the whole essence of the program was to see that people within the ages of 50,60,70 Years and above will not continue to remain in power.

He added that it had come to a stage in individual life to as a matter of urgency call on leaders to enlarge and expatiate on their vision for the people.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment