Share this on WhatsApp



SIFAX Group, one of the fastest multinational corporations with diverse interests in maritime, aviation, haulage and logistics, oil and gas and hospitality won two major awards at the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) Award ceremony recently.
Two of the Group’s subsidiaries, Port and Cargo Handling Services Limited, concessionaire of the Terminal C, Tin Can Island Port, Apapa and Skyway Aviation Handling Company Limited (SAHCOL) were awarded the Most Notable Innovative Maritime Operator of the Year and Leading Logistics firm in Warehousing operations awards respectively at the recent annual ceremony held in Lagos.
While presenting the awards to SIFAX Group, the chairman of the occasion and the former Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority, Chief Adebayo Sarumi, noted that the decision to concession the country’ port operations in 2006 and the involvement of indigenous companies in the exercise has paid off with the giant strides recorded by SIFAX Group in the last ten years.
He said, “A lot of skepticisms were expressed during the port concessioning process, particularly the resolve to involve indigenous companies. Many felt that lack of practical experience by local operators could defeat the whole essence of the concessioning, but we stubbornly stuck with them. We were impressed by their technical and financial presentations. Today, our port operations have improved greatly. There is an improved efficiency in almost all the aspects of the port operations in Nigeria. SIFAX Group and other indigenous port operators have made us really proud. These awards are testimonies of how well you have done over the years.”
After receiving the awards on behalf of SIFAX Group, the Managing Director, SIFAX Shipping Company Limited, Mr. Markus Brinkmann, appreciated CILT’s gesture and noted the resolve of the company to deepen its commitment to the growth of the country’s economy through its business expansion strategy that will generate more employment opportunities, quality and efficient service and impactful corporate social responsibility initiatives.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment