Suits are like the little black dress to men, Dynamic and a wardrobe must-have for men, suits are one of the most stylish fashion statements a guy can make effortlessly. Perfect for almost all occasions, wearing a bespoke, made-to-measure or ready to wear suit is guaranteed, to have the leading lady in your life, crossed-eyed with envy and anxious to make a honest man out of you.
The art of wearing a great suit lies in the designer, tailor and you. There are so many rules to wearing a suit but the “Fit” of your suit is the most sacred.
Trick to wearing suits: 

The world’s most expensive suit will look bad if it isn’t tailored to the contours of your body. Your suit jacket should fit well and give you a full range of motion, both buttoned and unbuttoned. The fit is the most important rule to wearing a great suit.


The shirt cuffs should not slide up when you stretch your arms. If you are wearing a button-cuff shirt, the cuffs should break exactly at the wrist; if it’s a French-cuff shirt, the cuffs should break about 1/2 inch further.


The days of wearing just black, navy blue, and grey suits are over. Stand out from the crowd by wearing a stunning burnt orange, burgundy, purple or sky blue suit today.


If you’re a shorter person, stick to single-breasted jackets. Double-breasted jackets can give you a “drowning-in-fabric” look and make you appear smaller. If you’re bigger around the middle, wear a lower-buttoning jacket rather than one with a higher placket. It will give you a longer silhouette.


Avoid low armholes as they will cause your suit to drag upward when your raise your arms in gestures


The shoulder of your suit should always end at your natural shoulders. To find out if your suit shoulder is the right fit, place your shoulders against a wall, if the shoulders hit the walls first, it is too big. Look at the shoulder pads to make sure they are gently sloping downward. If you have big shoulders, you should have smaller shoulder pads than the average man.


A pocket square adds an extra level of polish, but make sure it doesn’t match your tie in either pattern or fabric choice.

 
 

			
			PV: 
			0