By IFEOMA IKEM
A 25 year-old Lawyer, Joshua Olomo, who appeared before Chief Magistrate’s Court, sitting at Tinubu, Lagos, on Wednesday for theft has had the cases adjourned till January 29, for mention.
The criminal charge filed against the lawyer, is bordering on alleged theft of documents and $40, 000 US dollars; conspiracy, felony and stealing. He was alleged to have stolen vital documents and the sum of $40, 000, belonging to an oil firm, Pan Ocean Oil Corporation Limited, between the months of January and December 9, 2015 at the firm’s office situated on Victoria Island, Lagos.
The police in charge number C/105/2015, alleged that the lawyer entered into the office of the firm’s Chief Financial Officer, Oluseyi Oladapo and committed the alleged offences. The court presided over by Magistrate M. B. Folami  adjourned the matter for mention at the instance of the prosecution led by Inspector Richard Odigie, who inform the court that the police wants to amend the charge against the lawyer.
At the Wednesday’s proceeding, Inspector Odigie informed the court that the prosecution called four witnesses in the matter.
to include Kaola Abass; Oluseyi Oladapo; Bolaji Ogunfare; and one Inspector Kelechi, the Investigation Police Officer, in the offence allegedly committed by the lawyer.
Inspector Odigie applied to the court for a short adjournment to enable the police amend the charge against the accused. But lawyers to the accused, Idowu Olofinniyi and Samuel Olomo who did not oppose the prosecutor’s application for adjournment, urged the court to instruct the prosecutor to provide them with prove of evidence.
Olofinniyi particularly informed the court that his efforts in getting the proof of evidence had not yielded result. However, the presiding magistrate, pleaded with the prosecution witnesses who are mainly complainants in the matter, if there could be any means of resolving the matter amicably.
The prosecutor, Inspector Odigie had informed the court that the offences are contrary to Section 284 and punishable under section 310(c), 285(8) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos state, 2011.  Count one of the charges read; “That you Joshua Olomo between January and December 9, 2015 did steal the sum of $40, 000 property of Pan Ocean Oil Corporation Limited from the Chief Financial Officer and thereby committed an offence contrary to section 284 and punishable under section 285(8) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos state of Nigeria”.
Another count reads; “That you Joshua Olomo between January and December 9, 2015 on the same date, time and place did remove and disclose some official secret documents of Pan Ocean Oil Corporation Limited and communicated same to one Segun Fadeyi and thereby committed an offence punishable under Sections 59 and 60 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos of Nigeria”.
The accused had pleaded not guilty to all the count charges and admitted to bail in the sum of N2 million with two sureties by Magistrate M. K. Matepo led-court where he was first arraigned. Magistrate Matepo had also ordered that the sureties must show to court evidence of three years tax payment to Lagos state government, and their addresses verified by the court prosecutor, Inspector Richard Odigie. 
 

			
			PV: 
			0