By Gbenga Ogundare
The All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) cannot dictate how President Muhammadu Buhari and anti-corruption agencies carry out their legitimate duties of prosecuting looters of public funds, provided  it conforms with the rule of law.
This is just as it advised individuals being investigated on corruption charges to cooperate with investigators rather than declaring innocence on the pages of newspapers.
The APC National Secretary, Mai Mala Buni who made these known in a statement on Saturday afternoon, said that the party is also aware of the plot by the PDP and their agents to stampede and blackmail anti-corruption agencies over ongoing corruption cases being investigated.
Buni urged anti-corruption agencies to avoid distractions from the syndicated and coordinated attacks and continue to employ all legal and legitimate avenues to bring to book all looters of the nation’s common wealth.
According to him; “It is clear that the PDP is out of sync and out of step with the generality of Nigerians on the clamour to bring to book all looters of public funds. The days of impunity are over. The PDP and treasury thieves must pay for the recklessness and shocking mis-management of public funds perpetuated under the defunct 16-year PDP rule.’
“It is however reassuring that in spite of desperate and shameless attempts by the PDP and it’s agents to discredit President Buhari’s anti-corruption efforts, the war against corruption is being won.’
“The PDP camp, in baseless allegations, accuses the president of a selective anti-corruption campaign while members of the APC ‘with serious corruption allegations go about their businesses’. The PDP camp in continuation of its laughable conspiracy theories also speaks of ‘a calculated attempt to decimate and silence the opposition’ through the anti-corruption fight and an attempt to turn the country to a one-party state.
“The ongoing war against corruption is not selective. Anybody guilty of corrupt practices must face the law. The political will and sincerity of purpose of the present administration to tackle corruption from the roots to the upper echelons no matter whose ox is gored is unwavering.’
“On the allegation by the acting PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus that the APC is attempting to foist a one-party system on the country, such idle chat does not deserve a response” he said.
The APC however called on the opposition to put forward any proof of corruption against any APC member as alleged, further calling on the PDP to approach any of the anti-graft agencies constitutionally mandated to handle such cases.