Share this on WhatsApp

From Dapo Salami, Ibadan

The Vice President of Eze Ndigbo in diaspora and the Eze Ndigbo of Ibadan land and Oyo State, Dr. Alex Anozie, has urged the Federal Government to give proper attention to the agitators of the renewed pro Biafra agitation so as to keep Nigeria united.

Speaking with National Daily on the state of the nation in Ibadan during the week, Dr. Alex said that no Igbo wanted to leave Nigeria for any other country, explaining that what Igbos wanted was true federalism, equality and fairness.

He maintained that Igbos are ready to join hands with the federal government to tackle the problem of insecurity bedeviling the nation.

According to him, Igbos have really industrialized Nigeria and this is really boosting the economy of the nation.

“We are the brain box of Nigeria, so south east people should be allowed to be the President of Nigeria. We are interested in one Nigeria but the government should do the right thing,” Alex stated.

He also advised the federal government to arrange a meeting with all stakeholders in the region so as to fashion out ways and modality on this issue.

He is of the opinion that Igbo’s are being short-changed and he maintained that Igbo’s are the second in population of any particular zone in Nigeria after the indigenes of that zone.

He stressed the need for the government to put acts together and be very sincere in all they are doings maintaining that Igbo’s has contributed towards the growth Nigeria.

On the government’s anti-corruption war, Dr. Alex commended the present administration for being committed to the crusade but charged the government to be more transparent by telling Nigerians how much has so far have been recovered and how such recovered fund is been spent.

He advised Nigerian’s to maintain peace and unity because Nigeria is a nation that is loved by God so we should avoid utterances and act that can generate it and controversy in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment