·        Michael Jonnie challenges Tompolo’s militancy supremacy


 By SUNDAY ODIBASHI


Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State and Timipre Sylva will be going into grand battle for the soul of Bayelsa this, Saturday, January 9, 2016.  In the context of Shakespearean expression, both Dickson and Sylva will encounter the “Ides of March” in this Saturday’s supplementary governorship election in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area; one of the two must go down and the other will ascend to the throne of the Governor of Bayelsa State.

The election in Southern Ijaw on Saturday, December 5, 2015, was controversial and ended inconclusive after reports of shootings by unknown gunmen and massive irregularities. This made the result, insinuated to have favoured Sylva, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), unacceptable to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).

The INEC successfully conducted peaceful elections in seven local governments in the state in which Dickson won in six local governments on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Sylva in one local government. Southern Ijaw has about 126,000 registered voters, second to Yenogoa which has the highest voting population in the state.

National Daily investigation revealed that the electoral crisis in Southern Ijaw is the handiwork of political actors in the state in both the APC and PDP who extended electioneering campaigns to recruitment of several leaders of militant groups in the region. Findings revealed that Sylva, with purported support of Governor Adams Oshiomhole of Edo State and Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transport, allegedly recruited majority militants in Bayelsa State and empowered Michael Jonnie to lead the group working for the APC in Bayelsa. Jonnie was identified as the closest ally to the former Commander of the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), High Chief Government Ekpemupolo, popularly known as Tompolo. Southern Ijaw was indicated to be the headquarters of militants in Bayelsa State.

Findings also indicated that the PDP sought alternative forces, and went for militants’ leaders in Rivers and Delta states. The alternative forces are led by Tompolo, according to findings. A reliable source close to the militants’ leaders told National Daily that APC leaders plotted the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) against Tompolo, seeking his arrest before the supplementary election in Bayelsa State while empowering Michael Jonnie to crush Tompolo’s forces.

Findings from National Daily investigation revealed that militants’ leaders working with Michael Jonnie for the APC include Iyere Imami, Bony Giwe, General Ajube (Young Shall Grow), Paul Elis (General Ogunbus), Africa Akpasia (General African), among others. Michael Jonnie was disclosed to have vowed to undo Tompolo and end his reign as MEND leader.

On the other divide, those led by Tompolo working for the PDP include Poster Lines, Farada Dagogo, Ateke Tom, Suboma Jacklist – a.k.a. Egberipapa, General Joshua Makaiwa, Reuben Wilson – a.k.a. Pastor, Clever Osei, among others. They are all MEND leaders from Bayelsa, Rivers and Delta states. Alhaji Muhajeed Asari Dokubo and Boyloaf were also identified to be in support of Tompolo working for the PDP.

The December governorship election recorded low voters turnout. The battle for the over 120,000 votes in Southern Ijaw has been generating tension in the highly violent political environment because of the desperation of party leaders in that part of the state to either upturn or sustain the result of the December 5, 2105 Governorship Election. Sylva’s campaign coordinator and APC State Chairman in Bayelsa; as well as Speaker of Bayelsa State House of Assembly were all disclosed to have come from the Southern Ijaw.

Meanwhile, the political career of former President Goodluck Jonathan is also at stake in the Bayelsa State Governorship Election in all its ramifications. This phenomenon is creating a third force in the election, generally, on the side of Dickson. The federal might is also another force in the election that could work on the side of Sylva.
The violent actions of the militants were profound in the past elections in the local government despite the deployment of security personnel; thus, security operatives will have herculean task in managing the protection of live and property during this Saturday’s supplementary election.

Further findings from National Daily investigation indicated that the youth and certain militants’ leaders are already boiling for war if the people are not allowed to elect who will be their governor in the next four years.

			
			Post Views: 
			121