By Gbenga Ogundare
The national wing of the All Progressives Congress Party, APC, has declared null and void the purported 21-month suspension of  the senator representing Kaduna Central senatorial district, Senator Shehu Sani.
The Vice Chairman, Northwest zone of the party, Alhaji Inuwa Abdulkadir revealed this while briefing newsmen shortly after a closed door reconciliatory meeting with aggrieved stakeholders of the party in Kaduna yesterday.
The northwest vice chairman acknowledged that a letter was forwarded to the National Party’s office by some Wards Exco on the suspension of Senator Shehu Sani, adding that due process was not followed and therefore declared null and void.
“Senator Sheu Sani is still the APC senator for Kaduna State Central Senatorial District, ” Abdulkadir declared, pointing out that “The suspension of Senator Shehu Sani is not in conformity with the party’s rules and regulation, the ward that it was alleged that suspended him has dissociated itself and we have looked into his case and found him not guilty.”
The Northwest zonal Vice Chairman said that members discussed and advised on certain issues for peace to prevail in the party as well as for Nigerians to get the expectations of what they desire from their leaders and the leaders to proffer solutions where there is problem.
“We encourage dialogue for solution, hence the leadership of the party intervene on how to solve the problem in APC in Kaduna state,” he affirm, emphasizing that the APC had no split in Kaduna, cautioning that the issue in the state is a domestic affair, saying that consequently the party stopped every means of information disseminations to the press, except through its accredited channel.
Also, a chieftain of the party in Kaduna state, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed thanked the national Secretariat for listening to the State branch of the party.
He assured that the state branch would support the Governor El-Rufai to achieve success in his administration in Kaduna state, adding that they have banned media propaganda to achieve the desired result.
“APC Akida believes in one APC even if we have dispute, assuring that we will win election this February, 2016,” he noted.

			
			PV: 
			0