Share this on WhatsApp



By Adedeji Fakorede
The Nigerian Communications Satellite Ltd, (NigComSat), has announced that it has emerged winner of the bid to provide in-orbit test (IOT) and carrier spectrum monitoring (CSM) services for Belintersat-1 Satellite.
A statement issued by NigComSat in Abuja, Nigeria, credited to its Head, Public Affairs, Adamu Idris, said “this announcement was made by China Great Wall Industries Corporation (CGWIC), a renowned satellite manufacturing company in China.” CGWIC is a technical partner to Nigcomsat Ltd.
The information could not be immediately independently confirmed at press time.
The National System of Satellite Communication and Broadcast of the Republic of Belarus, otherwise known as BELINTERSAT 1, is meant to provide a wide range of telecommunication services (satellite TV and radio broadcasting, broadband Internet access), and carries transponders operating in C- and Ku-bands respectively.
BELINTERSAT-1 is based on the DFH-4 bus (China) manufactured of 100 per cent certified flight-quality components. It is the ninth satellite on this platform, launched into the geostationary orbit. Thales Alenia Space (France-Italy), a well-known world leader in the design and construction of the spacecraft, is a supplier of the BELINTERSAT-1 payload (transponders).
Although the teleport infrastructure operations is due to commence in March, the satellite is being launched into space this January, by means of a vehicle Long March 3B / G2, from the Xichang Satellite Launch Centre in China.
According to the NigComSat statement, “the IOT/CSM Services agreement has been signed between NIGCOMSAT and CGWIC and work has since commenced.”
It stated further that “by this engagement, NIGCOMSAT would support the activities of CGWIC by providing necessary facilities to test communication payload of the Belintersat-1 Satellite over Africa using the NIGCOMSAT Ltd Ground Station infrastructure located in Abuja. NIGCOMSAT LTD will also provide CSM services to monitor the performance of Belintersat-1 and transmit the data in real-time to Belarus for the life of the satellite.
Celebrating the development, the company said “this is a big feat for Nigeria and clearly shows that NIGCOMSAT and indeed Nigeria has developed the capacity to provide highly technical services in the satellite communication industry, in addition to its traditional services of transponder leasing, broadband services, enterprise solutions, secured communications and solutions amongst others over Nigeria and other African countries such as Gabon and Cote D’Ivore.”
The company said Commission Minister, Mr. Adebayo Shittu “will be leading a Nigerian delegation to witness the launch of the Belintersat-1 in this month and to discuss other related partnerships and ways to further improve, deepen and strengthen the Sino-Nigeria relationship.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment