Share this on WhatsApp
The Comptroller General, Nigeria Customs Service, Col. Hameed Ali (Rtd), has said that the service had generated N903 billion out of its N954 billion revenue target in 2015.
Ali made this known to newsmen Wednesday on the sideline of the decoration ceremony of newly elavated customs management staff in Abuja.
He said that the shortfall of N240 billion in the revenue target was due to Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) monetary policy which banned 41 items on the Forex list earlier in the year.
“In terms of revenue generation, we have a target of N954 billon as at today, we have generated N903 billion.
“If you remember CBN policy on 41 items; when we did our analysis, the policy has denied us money to the tune of N240 billion.
“So if we add that to what we have generated, it would have surpassed what we have.
“So that is the downside of why we were not able to meet the target in 2015, but hopefully with all the tools we put in place and I hope that government will once again look at those policies and see how they can be fine-tuned.
“I believe that we will surpass whatever target that has been given to us,’’ Ali said.
The customs boss formally decorated six newly- confirmed Deputy Comptroller Generals (DCG) at the ceremony.
The newly confirmed DCGs were Suleiman Idris in charge of Finance, Administration and Technical Services, Umar Abubakar in charge of Trade and Tariff and Ukaigwe Chigozie for Strategic Research and Policy.
Others were Ugo Ayegba (Enforcement, Inspection and Investigation), Warikoru Austin (Human Resources Development) and Grace Adeyemo (Excise, Free Trade Zone and Industrial Incentives).
Eight Assistant Comptroller Generals were also decorated during the ceremony.
The Customs boss said that the elevation of the new management staff was based purely on merit and not through lobby or compromise of set standard.
“I expect that this elevation will further ginger and enhance your performance and commitment to the service.
“Most of you have spent about 30 years in service and there’s no other home than the NCS.
“Having given these years to the service of the nation, I expect nothing less than the best. I expect from you henceforth, hard work, commitment and drive for the best,’’ he added.
Ali said that his mission in the NCS was to make it the best not only within Nigeria but across the world.
“My mission is to make sure we clean ourselves of all the bad impression that we carry along, my mission is to ensure that we meet the mandate set for us by the government.
“And I believe that all of you will have no other mission than to fall in with mine. We must work hard; we know where our short comings are, and where we have excelled.
“This is the time to review all these and make sure that 2016 is put on the record as one of the best years of the NCS.”
On welfare, Ali said that the NCS would seek increased remunerations from the Federal Government to enhance the welfare of staff.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment