By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
The Nigerian Police Force Management Team has said that allegations of lopsidedness in postings and promotion of senior police officers purportedly aired by national radio station was untrue and false.
In a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, (FPRO) ACP Olabisi Kolawole in Abuja on Tuesday explained that the accusations that the Inspector-General of Police gave preferential treatment to some Police officers from a particular part of the country was a figment of imagination of some people whose intention is to cause confusion.
ACP Olabisi said, “The Police authorities wish to categorically state that, there is no iota of truth in the report as promotion of senior officers are done by Police Service Commission and not by the Office of the IGP.
“In addition, postings of Assistant Inspectors-General of Police to Zonal Commands and Commissioners of Police to State Commands are made by the same body that is saddled with the oversight functions on the Nigeria Police Force based on recommendation of the IGP, who knows the operational competence and chemistry of the officers.
“Promotion in the Force is primarily based on availability of vacancies, seniority and merit. All promotions are subject to satisfying minimum requirements set by Police Service Commission and availability of vacancies.
To further substantiate that the IGP has no hand in the allegations, the FPRO gave details of the promotion released by PSC to include one CP to AIG from the North Central; five DCP to CP with two from the North East; two from North West and one from the South West.
Others include two Acting DCP to DCP from North/East; four Ag ACP to ACP with one each from the North West; N/Central; S/West and the S/East.
Also promoted include 20 CSP to ACP with six from North/Central; five from North/West; two from North/East;  one from Rivers; four from South/East; one from South/South; and one from South West.
The Police service commission also approved the postings of 59 Police Mobile Force Squadron Commanders across the country.
Among them, eight are from the North/East ; eight from the North/Central; 14 benefited from the North/West; 11 each from the South/South and South/West respectively while seven were the South/East.
Also, officers from the IGP Secretariat were not left out as 10 Senior Police Officers with five from the North/Central; three from the North/East; one from the South/West; and one from the South/East were affected.
ACP Olabisi further reiterated that allegations of irregularities in posting of Police officers are unfounded even as posting to offices is informed by personnel’s capability and competence. The IGP views the allegations not only as malicious but also capable of creating disaffection among officers.
She added that in view of the current security challenges facing the country, the IGP called on all good people of Nigeria to disregard any report capable of causing distraction especially now that all efforts should be galvanized towards national security in the new year.
He cautioned every journalists on upholding the ethical standards of their noble profession by verifying facts before going to press or  air it.

			
			Post Views: 
			181