Share this on WhatsApp



 …new era for Lexus luxury brand 
THE all new Lexus 2017 LC 500 which made its debut last week at Detroit Auto Show is the is Toyota’s latest attempt to imbue the Lexus brand with excitement and a sense of identity. It does that by using the same strategy as other recent Lexus models, albeit on a more dramatic scale. The LC is poised to take the place of the aging LS as Lexus’ flagship model.
Underneath that long snout sits the 5.0-liter naturally-aspirated V8 from the Lexus RC F and GS F. It produces the same 467 horsepower and 389 pound-feet of torque it does in those models, and is mated to a new 10-speed automatic transmission. That will get the LC 500 from 0 to 60 mph in under 4.5 seconds, Lexus says, and it claims the 10-speed will shift as fast as
The LC 500 rides on a new rear-wheel drive platform with a 52/48 front/rear weight distribution that’s slightly off the ideal 50/50, despite Lexus going to the trouble of putting the battery in the trunk. Engineers also focused on weight savings, employing large amounts of high-strength steel and aluminum door skins. A low seating position and available carbon-fiber roof are meant to help drop the car’s center of gravity.
2017 Lexus LC 500 flaunts sharp, aggressive and stunning looks. Now, it has become the flagship model of the brand. It is equipped with a naturally aspirated 5.0-litre V8 engine which is further mated to a 10-speed automatic transmission which is further used with a responsive dual-clutch mechanism. The transmission system used is lighter and smaller than some 8-speed gearboxes.
Besides these features, it is also offered with Lexus’ next-generation multimedia system, All-speed Dynamic Radar Cruise Control (All-speed DRCC), Pre-Collision System (PCS), Lane Keep Assist (LKA) and Automatic High Beam (AHB).
After its launch, it will compete with the Mercedes SLK and BMW 6 Series. It will be available for the sale by the early part of 2017. The luxury division of Toyota, Lexus is looking forward to conquering the luxurious market of the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment