… Secondus still in charge – NWC

Governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  have asked the party’s Acting National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, to step down.
The governors directed Secondus to hand over to the National Secretary, Prof. Wale Oladipo.

They said this was in line with the provisions of the party’s constitution.

This position was contained in a communique issued at the end of a meeting of the governors under the platform of the PDP Governors’ Forum in Abuja on Wednesday.
The governors chided a former Special Adviser on Political Matters to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Alhaji Ahmed Gulak, for invading the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja to declare himself the party’s national chairman.


But, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party has assured all members of the party nationwide that there has not been any change whatsoever in the leadership composition of the party at the national level.
PDP’s National Legal Adviser, Barrister Victor Kwon in a statement said the statutory organs of the party, from the NWC, National Caucus, BoT and NEC called for calm and disclosed that the party will be meeting next week to deliberate on some developments including the replacement, from the North East of Alhaji Adamu Muazu, who resigned as the National Chairman of the party.


“The replacement will be in strict adherence to the provisions of the constitution of our great party as specified in section 47(6). Until then, the status quo remains, which means the Deputy National Chairman Prince Uche Secondus, remains as the Acting National Chairman.
“Furthermore, it must be reiterated that all relevant stakeholders of our party, including the PDP Governor’s Forum, National Caucus and the Board of Trustees (BoT) as well as our leadership structures at all levels are united behind the current National Working Committee in the efforts to rebuild, reposition and strengthen our party for the challenges ahead.
“The leadership of our party has resolved to remain focused and not be distracted by the unpatriotic actions of the former Political Adviser to the former President because we are privy to his agenda of being an agent of destabilization in the party.
“While urging all members, especially those with various aspirations to dedicate to actions that unite rather than divide our ranks, the NWC wishes to assure of its unflinching commitment to the wider interest of the party, especially at this challenging time”, he stated.




			
			PV: 
			0