THE forthcoming maiden Africa Build International Trade Show has received a boost with confirmed ‎participation of 85 exhibitors from 14 countries. The Africa Build Trade Show slated for Lagos from 16 to 18, February, 2016, is aimed at showcasing the latest technologies and machinery in construction, building equipment, building materials and interior finishing materials.
The trade show also seeks to expose Nigerians to the array of business opportunities in the construction sector.
The countries slated to participate include Austria, China, France, Germany, Ghana, Italy, Poland, Spain, South Africa, Turkey, United Arab Emirates and Nigeria, which is the host country.
According to the organisers, the exhibition became necessary as a result of huge investments into mega-projects and a strong demand for affordable housing in Nigeria. They advised the professionals, who want to participate in the three-day event to do so by logging in to their website, www.africabuild-lagos.com.
Commenting on the upcoming fair in Lagos, the regional industry director, ITE Build & Interiors Divison, Mr. Darryl Pawsey, noted that Nigeria’s booming economy and its ever growing construction market are some of the major attractions for international suppliers in the country.
He stated that the 2016 launch of Africa Build Lagos was intended to stimulate international investment into the country’s construction and capitalise on the lack of international players in the unsaturated and growing market.
According to him, “It is incredibly exciting that for a launch event we have secured such a high number and diverse selection of international brands, which indicates a positive outlook for the future of the show.
More than 85 exhibitors from 14 countries will display all the materials and equipment at the show.
There is a multitude of reasons behind this vibrant and exciting growth. Nigeria, its Gross Domestic Product, GDP, hits $569 billion in 2014, is Africa’s largest economy and it is particularly robust. The West African State enjoys healthy growth to the tune of 5 to 6 per cent annually, and this looks set to continue in the near future.”
Mr. Pawsey observed that Nigeria with 180 million populace still faced 17 million unit housing deficit that would require investment of almost $85 billion to resolve according to the World Bank’s report, stressing that the exhibition represents a huge opportunity for the construction sector and allied fields, such as building materials.
He declared that all the indices above marked excellent pre-conditions for Nigeria’s largest and most important international building and interiors exhibition Africa Build Lagos 2016.
‎
In the words of the director-general, Federation of Construction Industry of Nigeria, FOCI, Ms. Olubunmi Adekoje, ” Africa Build Lagos 2016 enjoys great institutional support, as FOCI was delighted to support the organisation as institutional partner.”
The event is organised by the German trade show specialists, Fairtrade, and UK based experts in building and interiors shows ITE.

			
			Post Views: 
			226