By Frank Oyakhilome

The Lagos State Governor, Akinwumi Ambode, on Tuesday, commissioned FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria two billion Naira ultra-modern Finished Goods Warehouse with a capacity of over 14,000 pallet positions.
The WAMCO ultra-modern facility which sits on a 3.5 acre property and contains in-built offices for warehouse managers and storekeepers, allows for closer contact, ensure easier control and enable effortless access among staff. The Warehouse system cuts down logistics and avails a structured first-in-first-out process, which will significantly reduce storage-related errors.
Ambode, during his speech said that WAMCO has proven itself to be a proactive company of integrity, professionalism with internationally acclaimed best practices, adding that this is the reason Peak brand has endured for so long and is still the leading and preferred milk brand today.
He further explain that it is therefore no wonder that the company has achieved this feat today by the commissioning the Warehouse which is constructed in guidance in compliance to global best practice in Food Safety and Quality regulations and executed with LED lights which avail brighter surroundings in alignment with environmental Green Goals.
“The commissioning of this State-of-the-Art warehouse testifies to your faith in our economic development even in today’s uncertainties and also your desire to contribute to the growth of commerce in our beloved state”, the governor said.
The governor reiterated that the new warehouse will boost the company’s distribution capability and will also increase the number of employees, wholesalers and retailers, adding that the direct consequence is that Lagos state in particular and, Nigeria in general will enjoy more access to quality nutrition.
Ambode who promised to rehabilitate Acme and Damson roads, said that the State is proud to have provided an enabling environment for the company and its brands to have thrived for over 60 years.
The Lagos State governor who  emphasize the importance of paying  Tax regularly by companies and individuals, said tax evaders work against the good of the society, adding that the benefits of Tax are enormous to the growth and sustenance of every progressive society with people oriented initiatives.
While commissioning the facility, Ambode commended FrieslandCampina WAMCO for increasing its investment in Lagos State despite the challenging economy and for contributing to the growth of commerce in the state.
The Governor who was represented by the Attorney General of the State, Justice Adeniji Kazeem, seized the occasion to enjoin the company to continue with its best practices in the discharge and management of industrial waste and effluents noting that the new finished goods warehouse is in alignment with environmental Green Goals.
The Managing Director of FrieslandCampina WAMCO, Rahul Colaco, speaking said “we are really pleased with this new warehouse, which allows us to continue to meet the growing demand of our operations, adding that this means the company can offer her customers better stock guarantees, accruing from the state-of-the-art facilities of this investment.
Colaco explains that the new Finished Goods Warehouse underlines FrieslandCampina WAMCO’s strategy in reinforcing world class operations noting that the working environment in the new facility is significantly conducive for workers; this is due to the mechanical ventilation apparatus that include air expellers and vents.

			
			Post Views: 
			67