Share this on WhatsApp



Taking advantage of internet penetration in the country, The United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc has unveiled a more advanced and user-friendly mobile banking platform than the previous one.
The Divisional Head, Digital Banking, UBA, Dr. Yinka Adedeji, said in a statement that new U-Mobile is an entirely new platform. “It is not just an upgrade of the old but a new application with enhanced features that easily sync with a range of mobile devices such as iPhone, iPad, Android devices, or BlackBerry. The aim is to offer quick and easy banking at your fingertips, no matter where you are or the time of the day.”
One of the key features of the new platform, according to the bank, is its market place, which allows small businesses to own a virtual store. Cardless transactions will also be introduced to ensure that U-Mobile customers can withdraw money from UBA ATMs even without their payment cards.
Some of the other new features of the UBA U-Mobile include: capacity to validate beneficiaries of cash transfers before a transfer is made, ability to create favourite beneficiaries’ list to ensure that details of frequent beneficiaries are automatically listed, and easier   log-in and sign-up screens to improve user experience.
He also said the platform had been enabled to allow customers hotlist cards, set transaction limits, request or stop cheques, and print mini-statements through a Bluetooth printer.
“A lot of effort has been put into developing the new U-Mobile. It is very user-friendly and will transform your banking habits in ways you never imagined possible. The new U-Mobile which is already available for download on App stores compliments U-Direct, UBA’s advanced internet banking platform which also has the self-enrolment capability.
“Both applications run on the bank’s recently upgraded banking platform “Finacle 10x” launched in April 2015 to address the need of customers for efficient, secure and a fast banking platform. With a customer base in excess of eight million, UBA has invested heavily in building robust and secure digital banking platforms,” he added.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment