• Say governorship election marred by violence

 
By MIKE TAYESE, Yenogoa

 
THE International Republican Institute (IRI) in collaboration with the African Union (AU), who have been in Bayelsa State since September 2015 for the monitoring the governorship election, have issued their reports on election, saying that the processes were greatly flawed. The international observers complained of the high magnitude of violence during the elections which extended to supplementary polls.
The IRI, AU and others, said that Card Readers failed in many poling units they visited and that voter’s turnout was not so impressive compared with the total registered voters of 654,492 in the state.
Speaking on behalf of the Coalition, Ms Yuvvone Ncululu Hudson, from South Africa, said that there was relative calmness in some local government areas except Twon Brass, Nembe Bassambiri and Southern Ijaw that was out rightly cancelled due to perceived violence recorded on the Election Day on December 5, 2015.
Ncululu Hudson noted that materials arrived early in many local governments except Southern Ijaw. She also noted that card readers responded well in the supplementary election of January 9, 2016, compared to previous experiences. “Deployment of security agencies both on land and water was so impressive and the turnout in this election was better and peaceful in some areas,” she said.
Hudson narrated that APC agent at Oporoma gave false alarm that materials were hijacked by the PDP thugs in units 16,17,18,19, and 20 in ward 1 but on getting there, the election was in progress and that in Ward 10 unit 14 policemen retrieve ballot boxes from APC thugs. She further said that in Nembe, six PDP supporters were attacked and two APC supporters were also affected.
However, the Coalition of Accredited Observers commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), for conducting free, fair and credible election in Bayelsa State despite the difficult terrain.
In a communiqué issued in Yenagoa at the end of the election, and signed by the Chairman, Dr. Nwambu Gabriel, the Coalition remarked that though the election was keenly contested by all the political parties but PDP and APC were the two dominant parties.
They noted the turnout was relatively high, pointing out that voters were seen as early as 8.00am coming out to exercise their franchise; the action, they ascribed to Grass Root Voters Education and Sensitization conducted by INEC.
The Group, however, observed that the election was marred by massive thuggry, snatching of ballot boxes as well as pre-election violence, especially, in Nembe Bassambiri Ward 1 unit 022; Ward 6, units 004,005,013; Ward 9 unit 002; adding that materials for Southern Ijaw and some wards in Brass were snatched by thugs and taken to unknown destination.
The communiqué further indicated that it is evident that the democratic process of power transition as demonstrated in Bayelsa State in determining the winner of the keenly contested governorship election as conducted by INEC complied with the relevant electoral laws and global best practices.
They, therefore, recommended that in future elections, INEC should partner with Nigeria Air Force and Police to distribute materials by air because of the difficult terrain of the state.

			
			Post Views: 
			107