THE Nigeria Football Federations (NFF) is set to propose a plan were junior male and female national teams like the Flying Eagles, Eaglets, Falconets and Flamingoes are not paid bonues during international championships.
 NaijaSportsXtra gathered on Thursday following the NFF boss, Amaju Pinnick end of the year tweets to Nigerians on the federation’s twitter handle @thenff.According to the ex-Delta State Sports Commissioner, “Management of Nigeria football is a tough call, but the NFF Exco and Management are very much equal to the task.
 “We are proposing to stop paying bonuses to players of junior teams. But we are not reducing the tournaments we take part in.”
 Recall there were reports of bonus row in the U-23 camp in Senegal were the players refused to honour their training ahead of the final game against Algeria unless their bonuses be paid, and that of the Golden Eaglets were it was reported that only N20,000 were given to each member of the team as transportation allowance when they arrived in Abuja from Chile.
 On the health of Super Eagles Head Coach, Sunday Oliseh, “He is getting better. Any human being can break down. I speak to the doctors and we are confident he will back on his feet soon.’
 As regards 2018 World Cup: “Oliseh is in touch with every good Nigerian player everywhere. We are working to ensure we qualify for 2017 Afcon as well,” Pinnick stated.
 On women football, “The NFF has immense regard for women’s football. We are being very careful to get best holistic solution.
 “A company wanted to offset salary of proposed Super Falcons Coach, but was badly hit by the economy and pulled out at last minute.”
 FC Taraba crisis: The way forward is to make the Clubs independent of government. It has to be a process. We will engage the Governors Forum.
 “We are determined to make every Stadium in Nigeria a destination. We want a situation whereby entire families can go to Stadium.”
 Amaju, then appealed to the media to criticize objectively and constructively, not destructively. Negative publicity discourages investors.

			
			Post Views: 
			180