Share this on WhatsApp
…Attributes premature Death Of Coys To Lack Of Maintenance Culture

Members of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) Aeronautical Division have stated that the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET) calibration laboratory will save the country huge capital flight.
This is just as NSE charged various government agencies to imbibe the maintenance culture on its equipment to keep the system going.
President of NSE, Aeronautical Division, Engr. Bola Bido stated this when he led members of the association on a courtesy visit to the Director General of Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET) in Abuja
The President Bido stated that NIMET calibration laboratory; the only one in the West Africa sub region would not only save the country a lot of capital flight that Nigeria would have lost to other countries and bring about investment in the country.
He pointed out that lack of maintenance culture was responsible for the folding up of some companies in the country.
Bido urged parastatals heads to engage the services of local engineers in the aviation sector to handle all equipment maintenance related issues.
He argued that with the dwindling resources in the country, there was no way organisations would survive by seeking the services of expatriates where Nigerian engineers were capable of doing the job. According to him, “With the dwindling resources, it is necessary to look inwards by challenging our engineers to learn. Jobs that can be done by Nigerians should be given to Nigerians in order to encourage them.”
The President decried the high rate of ageing workforce in the aviation sector, adding that it remained a source of concern to the association and stakeholders.
While commending the NIMET boss, Dr Anthony Anuforom for the transformation in the agency, Bido noted that the ICT department of the agency remained a reference point and requested for the integration of agency services in Air Traffic Management (ATM) in all the airports to enable airlines gets its information.
He described the success recorded by Anuforom as huge due to what called continuity in office, just as appealed to government to allow heads of parastatals to transform various agencies during their tenure.
He called on the federal government to allow heads of agencies serve their tenure to ensure meaningful development in the system like that of NIMET that has been transformed
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment