By Ediale Kingsley
The nicest job in 2015 must be the one that came with a two year rent apartment at Lekki, an annual salary of N3.6m (at N300,000 monthly), and a 13th month salary ( or Christmas bonus if you like) of N500,000.  The job title is ‘Baby Mama’ and this particular employer is David Adedeji Adeleke also known as Davido. By now, I am sure we know the full gist of that saga. The scandal as however exposed in figures why we are having many Baby Mama springing up on a frequent basis.
Reacting to the revelation put out by Davido, some critiqued that in most civilized country it’s more expensive to carether for a Baby Mama. “ In many civilized country she is entitled to a car, a house and 1 million naira a month. But you wouldn’t know about that course you are in a jungle” blasts one angry commentator.
Another social critic said “ Watching with 3D glasses. Now that Sugarbelly and Mustapha’s drama has mellowed another entertaining than most civil servants who work 8am-5pm daily earn. She picked a very lucrative career indeed”
Here are the different categories of Baby Mamas as it affects Nigerian Entertainers:
THE LUCKY BABY MAMAS
Annie Macurley managed to escape the trap of that baby mama title as she beat Pero Adeniyi and Sunmbo Ajaba to have a wedding with Tuface Idibia.
For seven years Omotayo was answering to the nick name Baby Mama To Bad, until Peter Okoye married her. While Joseph Ameh, P-square’s drummer waited for dance queen’s second baby before putting the ring on it. And Paul Okoye followed the steps of his twin. In ensuing that his baby mama soonest became wifey.
REJECTED AND ACCEPTED BABY MAMAS
These ladies mostly had a one night stand with house hold name celebs. They are often the result of a fling that became serious because of the baby.
Oluwanishola Ogudugu is in this category. In 2011, pop star, Wizkid welcomed his first child from his babymama identified as Oluwanishola Ogudugu, simply called Sola. She gave the ‘Holla At Ur Boy’ crooner a son named Boluwatife, fondly called Bolu. At first, the singer vehemently denied the child, but with time, he had to accept him. He even showed off the cute boy few weeks back. Sola is beautiful and young too and she is no doubt sexy.
Adebola Olowoporoku also makes this list. She is the mother of MayD’s child. Adebola gave MayD, born Akinmayokun Awodumila, a bouncing baby boy. Their romance was kept secret until news got to town that the former P-Square Records’ artiste has a son from a baby mama. The child was given birth to in January 2013. Adebola is not living with her baby’s father, but we learnt MayD rented an apartment for her.
Also in this group is Lady Bimbo. When in 2012 news broke that one Bimbo Babatunde, who is said to be living in Egbeda area of Lagos, gave birth to Ice Prince’s child, the rapper vehemently denied being responsible for the child. Even the Chocolate City Records’ boy didn’t attend the christening of the child. But as time went on, he admitted the paternity of the child, who he has shown off on his Instagram page. Bimbo is not only charming, but she is sexy. We learnt that both Ice Prince and Bimbo are still seeing each other.
Finally, named in this category is lady Ruby.
Ngohide Ruby Ann Gyanggyan is the babymama of Nigerian rapper, Jesse Jagz. Ann has a seven-year-old daughter for the Jesse named Jade. Both met some years ago in Jos, where Jesse lived with his elder brother, MI. Jesse and Ann are no more dating, they still hangout once in a while. Ann is beautiful and also has what a man needs in a woman. She was sometimes ago unveiled as one of the artistes of MI’s Loppy Records.
BABY MAMAS FOR LIFE
Let’s also talk about the type of baby mama relationship that sees the lady going as far as having three or more babies for the celebrity. Just so to buttress our pint that ladies are deliberately gunning for these ‘baby mama’ title, the ladies in this category didn’t stop at the first kid, they went as far as adding more kids to the affair. An example of such is Abigail Barwuah, Mario Balotelli’s sister. The Italian footballer was once reported to have kicked against his sister dating Nigerian striker, Obafemi Martins. Abigail reportedly gave Martins his third child. Abigail is sexy, which may have been one of the reasons Martins is dating her. She gave birth to Martins’ child in October 2013. The lovers were in Nigeria in late 2012 and stayed for some days. If you consider the kind of money this soccer gurus make on a weekly basis…you just may not mind becoming baby’s mama for life.
BABY MAMAS BUT MARRIED
As a status, there are also a kind of Baby Mama. The category that covers those who have kids for the superstars but are quietly married to regular persons. Sunmbo Ajaba falls in this category. Though Sunmbo Ajaba is married to another man, and 2Face is married to another woman, the fact still remains that the wife of Pastor Tunde Adeoye bore two children for the Benue State-born singer from the Idoma tribe, which still qualifies her as 2Face’s baby mama. What stands Sunmbo out, apart from her height, is her gap teeth, which most times turn guys on. Her sexy eyes alone can make a pastor commit sin, while hiding under God’s grace. She is really one of the sexiest baby mamas in Nigeria.
 
FILL UP SPACE BABY MAMAS
Gone are the days when Timaya was fighting everywhere (even in the church) with his girlfriend. And that’s hugely because he has a new love that is presently filling up the space Njamah Empress left behind. Timaya’s baby mama, Enetimi Odom is a sexy, dark and lovely chic, who has succeeded in stealing the heart of Timaya. Enetimi gave the Bayelsa State-born singer a baby girl in 2012. The baby was christened Emmanuella, who her dad is really proud of. Enetimi is said to be in her 20s. She reportedly lives in a rented apartment in Ikeja with her child.
Another case study under this category is Victoria Olubulola. She is the pretty Abuja-based lady that some alleged crashed the young marriage of singer, 9ice and Toni Payne. She gave 9ice twin girls, which the singer initially denied, before finally showing them off online recently. Vickky, as 9ice’s babymama is fondly called, is surely a lady a man cannot take his lustful eyes off easily. Little wonder she hooked the singer despite being married to a beautiful wife.
Anna Banner may be the next lady to be in this category. She is doing everything to knock off Flavour Nabania’s official baby mama, Sandra Okagbue. But many feel this is a task too much and may only earn her the ‘baby mama number 2’ title.
CELEBRITY BABY MAMA
Another sexy celebrity’s baby mama is also a celebrity. In the movie world, she is called Bisi Omo logba logba, which means, Bisi, the happening babe. Though her alleged babyfather, Dino Melaye has still not accepted the paternity of the actress’ child, the screen diva has maintained that she cannot be wrong on who impregnated her, even though she has been termed as a sexy actress that may have allegedly slept with other men when she had a fling with the anti-corruption crusader. Bisi Ibidapo Obe is, any day anytime one of the sexiest Nigerian celeb’s babymamas.

			
			Post Views: 
			145