Share this on WhatsApp



By Isaac Tersoo Agber

Members of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) Aeronautical division have charged various government agencies to imbibe the maintenance culture on its equipment to keep the system going.
The president of NSE (aeronautical division) Engr. Bola Bido who gave this charge in Abuja when he led members of the association on a courtesy visit to the director general of Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET) noted, that lack of maintenance culture was responsible for the folding up of some companies  in the country.
Engr. Bido stressed the need for parastatals heads to engage the services of local engineers in the aviation sector to handle all equipment maintenance related issues.
According to Bido with the dwindling resources in the country, there was no way organizations will survive by seeking the services of expertrates where Nigerian engineers were capable of doing the job.
“With the dwindling resources, it is necessary to look inwards by challenging our engineers to learn”. “Jobs that can be done by Nigerians should be given to Nigerians in order to encourage them”.
Engr. Bido decried the high rate of ageing workforce in the aviation sector saying, it remained a source of worry to the association and stakeholders.
While commending the Nimet boss, Dr Anthony Anuforom for the transformation in the agency, Bido noted that the ICT department of the agency remained a reference point and requested for the integration of Nimet services in Air Traffic management in all the airports to enable all the airlines get its information.
He described the success recorded by the director general of Nimet Dr. Anthony Anuforom as enormous following what he called as result of continuity in office and appealed to government to allow heads of parastatals to transform various agencies during their tenure.
He called on the federal government to allow heads of agencies served their tenure to ensure meaningful development in the system like that of NiMet that has been transformed
Bido noted that the Nimet calibration laboratory, the only one in West Africa will save the country a lot of capital flight and bring about investment in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment