By OKOSUN DENNIS
The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) said in Lagos on Tuesday that a staff of the agency and a niece of the late Ikemba Odumegwu Ojukwu are part of a drug cartel being  interrogated over alleged conspiracy to import cocaine from Brazil.
The investigation was said to have commenced after an abandoned luggage from Brazil was found to contain 2.24kg of cocaine at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA) Lagos, leading up to the arrest of five suspects.
The Head of Public Affairs of the NDLEA,  Mitchell Ofoyeju in a statement gave the names of those being interrogated as Ali Bala Adamu, a staff of the NDLEA, Ijeoma Ojukwu, a niece to late Nigerian Politician, Chief Chukwuemeka  Odumegwu Ojukwu and three others Victor Umeh, Uche Igwelo and Egbuche Fidelis Osiita.
Reacting to the arrest, the acting Chairman of the NDLEA, Mrs. Roli Bode-George said that the Agency will prosecute whoever is found guilty.
“NDLEA is following every lead professionally and will exploit more opportunities towards getting every culprit arrested. We have also expanded the scope of our investigation and everyone involved in this illegal importation of narcotics shall be diligently prosecuted.”
She further added that the Agency will “continue to uphold the rule of law and dislodge drug trafficking organisations in the country.
“NDLEA will not compromise its high standard of operation. We are working very hard with international and local collaborators in projecting the image of Nigeria in drug control programmes. Any attempt by any person or group of persons to sabotage this great achievement shall be resisted. Probity and strict law enforcement shall be sustained,” Roli stated.
NDLEA commander at the Lagos airport, Mr. Ahmadu Garba added that the cocaine seizure is the first in the New Year. “This is the first drug seizure for the year.
Explaining how the seizure was made said, “On December 28, 2015, a bag with a tag bearing Agina Fidelis Ejike was abandoned at the arrival hall during inward screening of passengers on an Emirates flight. On January 1, 2016, one Egbuche Fidelis Osita came with authority letter mandating him to collect the bag.
“In the process, some white powdery substance weighing 2.24kg that tested positive for cocaine was discovered. The drug was neatly packed in four parcels concealed in false bottom of four female handbags.
He reiterated that further investigation led to more arrests” Garba stated.
It was, however, learnt that investigation by the NDLEA revealed that Ijeoma Ojukwu, 48, who owns a restaurant in Brazil, is a suspected member of an international drug trafficking organization.
She allegedly conspired with other suspects to collect the abandoned bag from the airport with the intent to recover the 2.24kg of cocaine. She was said to have contacted a staff of the NDLEA, Ali Bala on how to facilitate the collection of the bag at the airport.
The Agency also impounded the Acura MDX vehicle that the suspects drove to the airport.
“I have a restaurant in Brazil where I sell African food. I am from Anambra State and I am married with three children. My brother came from Brazil and could not find his bag. It was in the process of trying to get the bag out that we were arrested” Ijeoma stated.
Uche Igwelo, (36) a graduate of Public Administration, said that she was invited by Ijeoma to assist in collecting the bag. “I sell kitchen utensil and I am married with a child. Ijeoma met me that I should help him to collect a bag at the airport.
“We were trying to get the bag when NDLEA officers arrested us” Uche, from Anambra told investigators.
Egbuche Fidelis Osita, a 37-year-old student said that he was asked to collect the bag. “I am a 400 level student studying English Education at the Ekiti State University. My friend Victor Umeh was the person that asked me to help in claiming a luggage at the airport.
“We all drove to the airport where I was given a letter of authority and other documents of the passenger that came with the luggage. In the process of trying to collect the bag, I was arrested. This is all I know about this incident” he stated.
It was learnt that the agency has commenced investigation into the case with a view to determining their level of culpability before prosecution.





			
			PV: 
			0