By ODIMMEGWA JOHNPETER, Abuja
IN line with its recent policy of strengthening partnership with the diplomatic community for youth development, the National Orientation Agency (NOA) will work together with the Ecuadorian Embassy to discourage risky migrations by Nigerian youth.
Director General of the Agency, Mr. Mike Omeri disclosed this when he received in his office the Ambassador of the Republic of Ecuador to Nigeria, His Excellency, Leopoldo Rovayo Verdesoto on his first official visit to a Nigerian authority since the presentation of his letters of credence.
Omeri further disclosed that plans were underway for Ecuador to participate in a cultural exhibition during the annual “Do the Right Thing: Fall in Love with Nigeria” programme of NOA slated for February.
He added that the partnership will also deepen relations between Nigeria and Ecuador by helping Nigerian youths appreciate the local opportunities available to them while the Agency serves as an available resource centre for the embassy.
Earlier, Ambassador Verdesoto reeled out similarities between the two countries, including their memberships of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). He noted that Ecuador is one South American country where their Afro-descendants were never slaves and a country which supported the decolonization of over 50 percent of African states.
He said Ecuador will work together with Nigeria to find solutions to the dwindling crude oil prices in the international market and announced that preparations were on-going by the Ecuadarian Embassy to set up a press facility that will allow the Nigerian press free usage within normal office hours.
Furthermore, he said Nigeria can benefit from the Ecuadorian experience in rehabilitation of the physically challenged as the government moves to rehabilitate persons affected by insurgency in the North-East.
He also observed that his country had rich experience in social welfare programmes which the President Muhammadu Buhari administration can tap from to support its planned welfare programme for unemployed Nigerians.

			
			PV: 
			0