Share this on WhatsApp
From now through February 2016, prospective patrons and fleet managers willing to access soft bank loans to procure discounted Hyundai vehicles without necessarily undergoing bureaucratic bank charges can take advantage of Hyundai Motors Nigeria with Diamond Bank PLC ‘Dream Deal’ vehicle finance offer to buy choice Hyundai vehicles, the management of both organizations have announced.
The scheme christened ‘Hyundai/Diamond Dream Deal: It’s the best time to own a brand new Hyundai’ was extended to meet yearning customers’ request and it  promises to ease payment with 48 equal monthly installments without collateral or management fee, the duo assured.
Hyundai Motors Nigeria head of sales and marketing, Jatin Nadkarni who gave this hint at the inauguration ceremony in Lagos said the credit scheme was in line with Hyundai strategy and direction to make Hyundai vehicle acquisition a seamless experience.
He said successful customers would aside these seamless benefits enjoy series of other offers including interest as low as 14%; special prices; waiver of commitment and management fees, free labour and consumables for three months with one Samsung Galaxy Tab for every car purchased.
Also describing vehicle credit facility as a common practice in advanced markets, Mr. Nadkarni said the initiative is consequent upon the federal government National Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) aimed at encouraging patronage of new vehicles, particularly home made cars.
The company listed some passenger and commercial vehicle models that can be procured during this bonanza as Hyundai i10, Xcent, Accent, Elantra and Hyundai H100 truck with H1 van and school bus respectively.
He dismissed risk of hidden charges in the liberal credit facility, remarking that Hyundai Motors with Diamond Bank have integrated the vehicle acquisition plan to enable many more customers including those without functional account with the bank to embrace the facility.
“The evolving needs and preferences of prospective vehicle buyers prompted this campaign, which essentially would lessen the burden of owning a serviceable car, Mr. Nadkarni affirmed.
Also adding that the opportunity was designed to discourage patrons of used vehicle also known as tokunbo, the Hyundai Motors sales and marketing helmsman said: “I still can’t see the wisdom in patronizing tokunbo cars that doesn’t come with service history let alone offering value for money; which means, inheriting the liability of a previous user at unimaginable expense.
“What we are simply doing here in collaboration with Diamond Bank is to help prospective buyers starve-off the burden of sourcing funds to pay for a new car in one fell-swoop.
“Our objective therefore is to provide the best products and services to our customers to enable them enjoy value-added experience,” Mr. Nadkarni reasoned.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment