Share this on WhatsApp
By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
Following the arrest of the former National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olisa Metuh, by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the PDP has raised an alarm over alleged plans to poison him at the EFCC custody.
Officials of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had on Tuesday, January 5, stormed the Abuja home of Chief Olisa Metuh and whisked him away.
Metuh was said to have been implicated in the $2.1 billion arms contracts as the EFCC traced N1.4 to the account of a company allegedly linked to him.
PDP believes that the anti-graft agency may be planning to break Metuh and possibly poison him while been held.
Chief Olisa Metuh, the national publicity secretary of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) is presently in EFCC custody.
In a statement, by Richard Ihediwa, the special assistant to the party’s national publicity secretary, the anti-graft agency stormed the compound this morning and asked Metuh to follow them to the commission’s headquarters.
“The national leadership of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) demands an immediate release of the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Chief Olisa Metuh, who was Tuesday morning invited and detained by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
“This development, which did not come to us as a surprise given series of threats to our party’s spokesman by the All Progress Congress (APC) and the Federal Government, who are obviously not comfortable with our stance on the confused state of the nation under their watch, is a continuation of APC’s grand design to silence and decimate the PDP.
“The arrest of Chief Metuh today underscores the growing political intolerance in our country and the foisting of a police state which was last Wednesday underscored by the President and Commander-in-Chief himself, who defended why a government in a democracy should flout constitutional provision and brazenly disobey court orders.
“This onslaught against our spokesman, according to intelligence available to us is part of a larger script by the government to ensure that PDP wings are finally clipped in their mission to install a dictatorial one-party state in the country.
“The excesses of security agencies under this government, especially the Directorate of Security Services (DSS) and the EFCC, in abridging the human rights of PDP members have become worrisome and a threat to our democratic evolution.
“Nigerians and the international community will recall that on a number of occasions, the PDP, through its spokesman has been outspoken on some undemocratic proclivities being exhibited by the APC-led Federal Government in the last seven months.
“The PDP insists that for whatever reason Chief Metuh was arrested, his rights as a citizen under the law must not be trampled upon. We therefore demand for his immediate release and that due process of investigation and prosecution concerning him should be strictly adhered to.
“We state this because we have been made aware of top directives to break Chief Metuh and if possible poison him during his detention by the EFCC.
“Chief Metuh, has since his arrest at about 10 am, has been kept incommunicado, with his lawyers denied access to him.
“The PDP declares the arrest of our spokesman as the last straw that may break our democracy. We therefore forewarn the Federal Government and its agencies to save our democracy and forthwith release our National Publicity Secretary.
“We are also calling on the international community and well-meaning Nigerians to stand up for this democracy, which our party nurtured for 16 years and deepened to a level where the opposition, for the first time in our political history, had the opportunity to win in a general election.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment