Share this on WhatsApp



By Adedeji Fakorede
 
Following their amazing trip to Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) courtesy of the Airtel Red Hot Promo Season 3, winners of the all-expense trip for four to Dubai have returned to Nigeria.
They were welcomed back to Nigeria on Wednesday 30th 2015. Excited to have emerged winners in the Airtel Red Hot Promo 3, the Airtel customers commended the leading telecommunications services provider, Airtel Nigeria, for fulfilling their promises and making the holidays unforgettable for customers.
The winners narrated their pleasant experiences in Dubai and noted that the trip gave them opportunity to visit exciting places in Dubai such as Burj Khalifa, the tallest building in Dubai, Dubai Mall, Ferrari World in Abu Dhabi and the Safari Desert for the cruise.
Eight of them admitted that the all-expense paid trip to Dubai was their first trip ever to the UAE.
Mrs. Victoria commended Airtel Nigeria for giving her and the children the opportunity to enjoy the Christmas holiday in a special way.
She said: “The Airtel Red Hot Promo 3 came at the right time; my children are so excited to go on the wonderful trip to Dubai. It was not an easy decision for me to pick just three family members for the trip, but my husband willingly suggested that our three children should go. We really appreciate the Dubai trip courtesy of Airtel. We thank the network for rewarding their customers with this programme.”
In similar vein, Mr. Oji said: “I am really excited with this amazing trip to Dubai. I experienced the sight and sound of the much talked about city. I went with my friends and workmates. I say a big thank you to Airtel Nigeria for offering me this wonderful opportunity.”‎
The company said apart from the Dubai trip, which is for a total of 240 people, other prizes await Airtel customers. It noted that as the promo runs from 4th of December to 1st of February, one smart phone is given out every 24 hour.
N1 Million is being given on a daily basis to a lucky winner and a different denomination of airtime is given to thousands of winners each day.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment