By Osifo Godfrey
The problem of housing confronting Ogun State will soon be a thing of the past. This was made known by Ogun state Housing Corporation [OGHC], through a statement signed by the Adviser to the Governor on Housing and Development, Mrs. Jumoke Akinwunmi which was presented to the state House of Assembly.
Mrs. Akinwunmi said N3.556bn would be spent by the corporation in the 2016 fiscal year, adding that the state would witness massive turnaround in housing development, as arrangements were in place for the OGSHC to work with Shelter Afrique and the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria as well as other public and private collaborators.
“It is noteworthy to say that the corporation is confident of making houses available to the residents of the state as the proposed budget estimates for 2016 are all encompassing to make this a reality,” she said.
The SA added that more professionals such as land surveyors, electrical engineers and quantity surveyors, among others, would be engaged in the core areas of building construction in order to deliver quality housing units with essential facilities that would make such houses stand the test of time.
Akinwunmi also said the corporation would pursue the Internally Generated Revenue target for 2016 so as to enable the state government meet up with the aspirations of the people.
The Chairman, House Committee on Finance and Appropriation, Mr. Akanbi Bankole, was quoted as saying that the corporation deserved commendation for its efforts towards making housing available for the people in spite of dwindling resources.
He also encouraged the corporation to always consider the low and middle-class residents of the state in its projects.
Meanwhile, the state Ministry of Urban and Physical Planning has unveiled plans to create additional area offices in some densely populated areas of the state such as Akute, Agbara, Ijoko, Atan-Ota, Ifo and Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Areas in order to meet its revenue generation target.
The Commissioner for Urban and Physical Planning, Chief Adebola Adeife, was quoted to have made this known in Abeokuta while receiving the state executive members of the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners led by its Chairman Mr. Francis Oyekunle.
Adeife said the N4bn proposed revenue could be generated by the board if the 20 zonal offices in operation were evenly increased and the officers were more empowered through the provision of operational vehicles as estimated in the proposed budget.
He also charged the professional body to work closely with the ministry as the expertise and professional advice of its members would be needed, adding that at least five slums within the state in places such as Abeokuta, Ota, Sagamu, Ijebu-Ode and Ilaro needed to be upgraded.
Oyekunle urged the ministry to look for ways of fast-tracking the process of applications submitted by developers in order to forestall the resurgence of illegal structures in the state.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			213