By Lanre Adesanya
 
Irate by the dirty and unkempt state of the markets in Ota township, Ado-Odo/Ota local government area of the state,Governor Ibikunle Amosun orders their closure.
Amosun issued the order in a recent interactive session with the people of the state on the state owned broadcasting outfits, OGTV and OGBC.
He frowned at the condition of the markets when he visited during one of his routine monitoring exercise and directed that the markets be closed down until the needful is done.
Amosun threatened that anyone who flouts the order by opening his shop on Monday will be made to face the wrath of the law.
The governor urged the people to stop dumping their refuse on the roadside and warned that culprits will be arrested.
“We should all be vigilant about indiscriminate refuse dumping. If any refuse is found by a roadside, houses in front of the place on both sides will be dealt with.
“You can tell me that you don’t know who dropped the refuse there. If it is money, you will not bother to know who dropped it before you pick it away. So, be watching others because you will all bear me witness then.
“Concerning the markets, can you imagine seeing how dirty the market are. When I got to Ijebu Ode, I was impressed with what I saw. I can give them between 80-85%, but I have told them to pack the remaining refuse.
“But what we saw at Ota, Iyana Ijoko and some areas in Sango are not good at all. These people will drive investors out of your community. If you don’t know, Ota is gradually losing the industrial hub status of the state because now we are having like seven hubs.
“Sagamu-Ogijo through Ikorodu is there, Ita Oshin to Ewekoro area is another one. Ijebu ode-Sagamu axis is there, Onijanganjagan area down to Interchange is also getting attention. We are also looking at Ijebu Ode-Epe area now.
“With all these, coupled with their dirtiness, Ota may be pushed back. But I have ordered that all the markets be closed down and no one must open shops in that area until all the refuse are evacuated.
“Even if it will take them one month to carry out the evacuation, everything must be cleared off before the markets will be opened,” Amosun said.

			
			Post Views: 
			126