By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
The Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, said the agency will soon arrest more influential Nigerians who are on their radar.
He spoke in Abuja on Wednesday at a meeting with online media practitioners and broadcast media managers explained that “More influential Nigerians are on the radar of the EFCC and, in the coming weeks, they would have their days in court and Nigerians will be kept fully abreast of the results of the Commission’s investigations”.
Magu stated that the essence of the meeting was to solicit media support and understanding to deepen the fight against fraud, corruption and economic crimes. He asked for advice and suggestions in effectively propagating the war against graft.
“Apart from bringing corrupt public officers to justice, we are determined, in line with the stance of the current administration, to send an unmistakable message to everyone, that no Nigerian shall be regarded as being above the law or treated as a sacred cow as far as the fight against corruption is concerned.
“The EFCC needs you; Nigeria needs your critical support if we are to make any headway in this important campaign against corruption. My plea for your support is underscored by my understanding that the forces which we are battling are powerful and some of them may want to use all platforms of the media to distract and derail us. If and when they come to you, please allow the ethics of your profession, your conscience and overriding national interest to be your guide”, Magu said.
The EFCC boss explained that he has re-ordered the priorities of the EFCC and he finds inspiration in the unbending will of the President to fight corruption adding that the judiciary’s response through designation of selected courts to try EFCC cases was commendable.
When asked about the perceived unbalance nature of the arrests made so far, Magu responded by saying “Such accusations have come up a lot, but we work with petitions before us. In fact, I am eager and waiting for something from the other side, but nothing has come so far,” he said.
Shortly after taking over from the former Chairman, Magu also met with Editors of both Print and Electronic Media in Lagos soliciting for their support to drive EFCC agenda in combat corruption in the country.
 

			
			PV: 
			0