By OKOSUN DENNIS
A traffic suspect arrested over the weekend by the operatives of the Rapid Response Squad of the Lagos State Police Command has explained how his gang disposed motorists on Lekki – Ajah Expressway of their valuables whenever there was traffic.
The suspects, Biodun Omoyeni, (22), from Ibadan, Oyo State, explained that, what his two- man traffic robbery gang do was to distract the driver that the tyre is flat while another member of the gang  would pick up valuables from the other side of the driver’s seat.
Omoyeni explained that through this method, his gang had stolen more than 19 phones and 3 laptops in four robbery operations in Lekki–Ajah traffic.
His arrest was made possible by the operatives of the RRS, who disguised as passers-by when they were hinted by motorists on the activities of his gang in Lekki – Ajah Expressway traffic.
Omoyeni noted that his partner and gang leader, Rasaq, (24), still at large, trained him and four other boys on how to steal mobile phones and valuables in traffic and on motorbikes in Mushin. He added “Rasaq is a meat seller at Sabo, Ikorodu. He is homeless and we have been to four operations together. We stole up to 19 phones in those operations. We always operate in Ajah.
“We met in Mushin and Ojuelegba whenever we want to operate before heading to Lekki and Ajah for our operations. We conduct for commercial buses and we use that to monitor traffic till 7:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. When it built up, we start operating.” The suspect added.
He continued that. “Once there is traffic, we strategize and we start operation. One of us from the driver side tells the motorist that the tyre is punctured while the other person through the window takes the phones, money, wallets, pad and other valuables from the other side of the driver”.
The suspect, with several scars and stitches on his face said, “the wound in my face are as a result of street fighting. I was rejected in four hospitals two years ago before I was admitted in University College Hospital, Ibadan, where the wounds were stitched”.
He also insisted that “I am not an armed robber. It was Rasaq that introduced me to all this. It is all because we are normally together all the time. I was a tyre seller in Ibadan before I decided to follow a friend to Lagos on a greener pasture”.
One of the robbery victims, Paul Eugene, a music instructor, whose phones were found with Omoyeni, and returned to him yesterday, thanked the RRS for recovering his phones in less than three hours after being robbed in traffic. Eugene stated that one of the suspects distracted him from focusing on his driving that his rear tyre was flat but on checking it, he noticed nothing, but he observed other motorists rolling up their glasses in traffic.
‘I didn’t know Omoyeni from the other side of my car has taken my phones and some money. I was still in the car when a fellow motorist told me that they have stolen my phones.
“I was surprised about two hours after the incidence to see a neighbour knocking at my door that the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) called that I should come and pick up my phones and that the suspects have been arrested”, he added.
Meanwhile, the operative of the RRS has arrested one Oladeinde Oresegun for buying stolen phones from Biodun Omoyeni. Oresegun said he sells fairly-used materials in Idi – Oro, Mushin, Lagos. He added that he has only bought four phones from Omoyeni, stressing that he didn’t know that he was a traffic robber.
The suspect along with the buyer have been transferred to Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) HQ in Ikeja.
The Police Public Relations Officer, Dolapo Badmus confirmed the arrest, stating that there would be no reprieve for criminals in Lagos State.

			
			Post Views: 
			293