From, Nosa Eresoyen, Asaba






A Sim Card in the GSM phone of the abducted and killed Obi of Ubulu-Uku, Akaeze Edward Ofulue III, has allegedly disappeared three days after the mobile phone was said to have been found with a Fulani herdsman arrested by the security agents as one of the suspected killers of the late king.
Though the police through the commissioner, Mr. Aikalu Baba Usman claimed six suspects have been arrested, tongues are however  wagging over the said disappearance of the Sim Card from the monarch’s GSM reportedly found in the bush during a search party conducted.
Mr. Joseph Obaze, Secretary to the Obi in-council disclosed in Ubulu-Uku that the meeting of the council of chiefs was ongoing, but refused to comment on the alleged missing Sim Card of the late Monarch’s GSM.
He said “The security agents are in the best position to speak on that. Our own is to collaborate with them to uncover the killers of our Obi” and commended the efforts of the state government with a view to ensuring that the culprits are brought to book.
It was reliably gathered  that the Monarch’s GSM was taken away from him in his attempt to escape from kidnappers den and was handed over to the leader of the gang.
But Mr. Alkali Baba Usman the state commissioner of police confirmed to newsmen in his office on Tuesday that the arrested suspects were currently helping the police for further investigation, adding: “I cannot disclose further on that because we still working on more tip-offs to arrest more of the principal suspects before making it public.”
On the missing Sim Card in the monarch’s GSM, the police boss said investigation was ongoing, adding, “We will not say much now not to truncate our investigation, but we are doing our best to ensure all the culprits are brought to book.”
Meanwhile, a visit to the community shows it is still wearing a sober mood, investigation revealed, forcing  residents to go to beds in the early nightfall, while the popular Saint Anthony’s College and the market have been shut down for customs and traditio
But  the state Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, on Monday described the killing of the Monarch as shocking and unfortunate, saying: “We must unmask those involved in the heinous crime that led to his demise, this is terrible, this is something nobody prayed for, unfortunately it has happened, the police have made some arrests and working with the SSS, they are working to uncover the Monarch’s killers.”
A native of the community who did not want his name in the print told our correspondent, “we found the Obi’s GSM in the bush inside the community and the Sim Card was removed. We cannot fold our hands to such act, we will get to the root of it.”





			
			Post Views: 
			114