Share this on WhatsApp



…accuses them of squandering N300bn in 3yrs

By ISAAC TERSOO AGBER

THERE is a looming fear in Nigeria’s aviation industry over impending sack of some Heads of Agencies and other staff in key positions, National Daily has gathered. According to investigation, the impending sack may be in connection with alleged squandering of N300 billion by the former ministry in the last 3 years, of which the Federal Government believes that some beneficiaries of the loot are still hanging in wait for another opportunity.
Reliable sources have confirmed the possibility of imminent purging in the aviation sector in order to block leakages and improve efficiency. It is believed that the current heads of management in the various agencies Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) and the NIMET were chief conspirators in the looting of N300 billion, which the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, made public in Abuja yesterday.
A source in the NCAA, who spoke to National Daily on condition of anonymity, said downsizing of workforce in major agencies of the industry is imminent and in accordance with a long standing trend that has seen each administration change its workforce in order to marshal out its agenda successfully. He said the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration is bent on reducing corruption in the industry to the bare minimum and is already waiting with a dagger in hand to cut off suspected individuals, who participated in the N300 billion loot.
“The current managements in the major parastatals were inaugurated by former President Goodluck Jonathan, and there is this trend in the industry for a new regime to get its own men on ground to achieve its plans for the economy. Except for the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) whose Director General/CEO passed through the screening of the National Assembly, Buhari has the liberty to fire the rest of the CEOs,” the source said.
Meanwhile, the Transport Minister, Ameachi, lamented how the funds were managed and disbursed without effective machinery in place, asking how it was possible for only one individual to collect N32 billion and run out of the country to invest the stolen money in Dubai and other neighboring African countries.
“One of those who took our money is walking on the streets of Nigeria and nothing has happened to him and the airline is dead. He does not even have the courtesy to say that the airline is dead,” he said.
With all indications, the government may instigate a legal suit against the suspect, who is believed to be the erstwhile Chairman of the defunct Air Nigeria. Other conspirators will also get their own share of justice, which possibly be a sack.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment