By ESTHER EGBE
2015 Copa Lagos Beach Soccer got underway at the Eko Atlantic Bar Beach on a high note as the five-day event featured four clubs and four countries.
The beach Elephants of Cote d’s Ivoire emerged as tournament champion after defeating England 6-4 on Sunday. According to the organizers of Copa Lagos, this was the third win for the Elephants.
Ivory Coast already had two wins in two matches after defeating Lebanon and Nigeria; they wanted to punish Copa Lagos with maximum nine points.
Nigeria Professional Football League side, Kano Pillars, started their quest to win the club challenge on a bright not with a 7-5 win over Pepsi Academy.
In the second game of the tournament, European beach soccer club champions FC Barcelona defeated debutantes Shooting Stars FC of Ibadan with a 4-2 victory. Lebanon opened their Copa Lagos 2015 account on an emphatic note after defeating England 4-2.
The last game of the day ended on a disappointing note for Nigeria’s Super Sand Eagles following a 6-3 loss to Ivory Coast.
Ivory Coast opened their Copa Lagos title defence on a winning note following an emphatic 6-3 victory over hosts, Super Sand Eagles.
Super Sand Eagles Coach Audu Adamu, in a post-match interview said, “The strategy didn’t work. We are experimenting because most of our key players are not available.”
National DailySports spoke with the Nigeria MVP of Copa Lagos Abu Azeem who explained why they lost the game. According to him, he didn’t win because most of them play normal football.
“Spending just few days in camp on the beach is too small for players to get well. Late camping affected Nigeria’s team at the beach soccer tournament.”
The Warri Wolves striker said that if they check out very well on other players of the team, they have learnt how to play on the beach well. “But our Nigeria team takes at least two weeks or more to adapt well to the beach when you are coming from grass pitch.”
The MVP of Copa Lagos said this year’s officiating was shaky. “I don’t know why they use same referees every year. I think there should be a change that and improve,” he said.
Also speaking at the beach soccer, leading beverage brand, Pepsi reaffirmed its commitment to the development of football in Nigeria.
Managing Director Seven Up Bottling Company Plc, Mr. Sunil Sawhney, who disclosed this during the tourney, said whether on grass or sand, Pepsi will continue to support the growth and development of football in Nigeria.
Speaking further, Mr. Sawhney described COPA Lagos as one of the biggest beach soccer tournaments in the world. He said Pepsi as a global brand with passion for football development is proud to be associated with the competition for the past five years.
According to him, through the Pepsi Football Academy, lots of talented young Nigerians have been discovered and nurtured to become world football stars in the past 23 years, including John Obi Mike, Osaze Odemwingie, Elderson Echejile, Onyekachi Apam, among others.
“Besides, 15 Pepsi Academy youngsters have benefited from a two-year Pepsi scholarship to play football and study at some of UK’s best high schools,’ he added.

			
			PV: 
			0