The Nigerian Army on Sunday confirmed the killing of scores of people after suspected Boko Haram terrorists launched a night attack on Dalori village at the outskirt of Maiduguri.
Col. Mustapha Anka, the Media Coordinator of Operation Lafiya Dole Theater Command, stated this in a statement in Maiduguri.
Anka said the attack was targeted at members of the local vigilance group, the Civilian JTF.
“It was a desperate reprisal attack on the strong, determined and committed members of the Civilian Joint Task Force (JTF) and innocent citizens.
“Suspected Boko Haram terrorists launched an attack on Dalori, through Yale from the rear of Dalori village.’’
The coordinator said that the attackers came to the village in two Golf salon cars.
“The terrorists were believed to have arrived in two Golf salon cars and motorcycles before they started opening fire and burning houses.
“Their motive was to cause rancour and penetrate crowd with suicide bombers.
“Also, while people were running for their dear lives to Gomari Kerkeri village, three female suicide bombers attempted to make their way into the crowd but were intercepted and subsequently blown up.
“During the incident, lives were lost while some people sustained injuries.’’
The terrorists also attempted to penetrate the Dalori IDP camp but the attempt was resisted by the troop which resulted into detonation of Improvised Explosive Devise (IED) by suicide bombers.
In his condolence visit to Dalori, the Theater commander Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj.-Gen. Hassan Umaru condoled with the District Head of Dalori, Alhaji Lawal Bashir and entire dwellers for the unfortunate incident.
He assured the people of the Theater’s commitment to bring insurgency to an end soon.
Umaru also commended the villagers for their resilience and urged them to be strong and committed in the fight against insurgency.
He thanked NEMA, SEMA, Red Cross and other stakeholders “for their tireless humanitarian efforts.”
Meanwhile, National Daily gathered from some villagers and aid workers that no fewer than 50 persons were killed during the attack.

			
			PV: 
			0