THE Director General of the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation, Mrs. Sally Mbanefo has reiterated her commitment to the actualization of partnership with Kano State especially in the area of marketing and promotion of domestic tourism.
She made this declaration during a courtesy visit to the Corporation by a four-man delegation from the Executive Governor of Kano State, Alhaji (Dr.) Abdullahi Umar Ganduje.
She noted that Kano State is one of the tourism friendly states and also a major tourism hub and gateway in Nigeria. “This is why NTDC found it strategically important to establish the tourism information desk and travel portal at the Aminu Kano International airport. The centre would facilitate travel businesses and promote hospitality and tourism services in Kano and Nigeria at large”
Earlier in his speech, the Permanent Secretary, Kano State Civil Service Commission, Abdullahi H. Kwaru who led the delegation acknowledged for the role NTDC has been playing in projecting the image of Nigeria to limelight abroad. He went further to state that the purpose of the visit is to seek collaboration with NTDC in the area of domestic tourism especially the Jiga Dam Project, women and youth empowerment including other attractions in the State.
Also speaking, the Spokesman of the delegation, Civil Service Commissioner of Kano State, Engr. Bello Mohammed said:
“NTDC is a reputable organization; they have been able to brand Kano State as a tourism friendly state and we are very happy with the Director General, Mrs. Sally Mbanefo, has visited Kano state to open the NTDC Tourism Information Desk at the Aminu Kano International Airport.”
The delegates lauded the efforts of the corporation under the leadership of Mrs. Mbanefo, particularly the official domestic tourism visit NTDC paid to the state which afforded her the opportunity to identify major attractions in the state.
In response, Mrs. Mbanefo explained that Kano State and NTDC have come a long way together. “I have embarked on domestic tourism tour within Kano metropolis to visit and identify major tourist attractions and the Jiga Dam is one of the very strong potentials of the state.
She further emphasized that tourism remains the largest employer of labour, “Tourism is one of the enablers behind the country’s developmental programmes of job creation and as people travel within Nigeria, it will create unity and peaceful harmony,” she said.

			
			PV: 
			0