As the Bayelsa state governorship election re-run holds on Saturday, the Inspector General of Police, Solomon Arase has assured of adequate security during the elections.
Similarly, he has also imposed movement restriction in the seven out of the eight Local Government Areas of Bayelsa State, where elections are scheduled to take place in the State on Saturday, 9th January, 2016.
IGP Solomon Arase, reassured that adequate security, logistics and manpower have been strategically deployed to achieve a most conducive electioneering.
To achieve that, the Force Public Relations Officer, ACP Olabisi Kolawole explained in a statement that the Police have commenced extensive security operations in the State, including the deployment of plain cloth detectives and surveillance helicopters for aerial patrols, while gunboats and speed boats will complement the Police Marine Unit to convey security personnel and election materials to riverine communities.
“Armed personnel from Police Mobile Force, Special Protection Unit as well as Counter Terrorism Unit of the Force are on ground to support the ongoing security operations in the State.
“In addition, the IGP has deployed a Deputy Inspector-General of Police to supervise security arrangements and will be assisted by an Assistant Inspector-General of Police and three Commissioners of Police in addition to over 5000 conventional Policemen,” Olabisi added.
“The IGP has also placed an order banning movements in and out of the LGAs where elections will hold with effect from 6am to 6pm on Saturday 9th January, 2016.
“However, persons on essential duties such as Ambulance service providers, INEC officials, on-duty, security men, accredited election monitors/observers, accredited journalists, are not affected by this order,” the statement added.
IGP Arase expresses his regrets over the inconveniences that road users and the general public might suffer as a result of this restriction order, noting that it was a strategic move to curtail the influx and movement of undesirable and criminal elements during the election.
He warned the citizens to shun violence and all forms of thuggery, as the full weight of the law will take its course on anyone apprehended.

			
			Post Views: 
			268