The Commissioner of Police, Railway Command, Mr Pius Imue, on Friday decorated two newly-promoted officers from the rank of CSP to ACP.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the occasion which held at the Nigeria Railway Corporation headquarters in Ebute Meta, Lagos, was witnessed by the corporation’s managing director, as well as other directors.
The officers were Mr Chinedu Chinaka and Mr Abel Audu.
Imue, who said he was excited at the approval of the promotions, urged the officers to redouble their efforts.
He said: “Late 2015, I received the two officers posted to the command.
“One of them wore a rank lower than his office, while the other wore the rank of an Area Commander and was deployed to Bauchi.
“As God will have it, the good news came that they had been promoted to their real status of ACPs.
“So I was excited when I got the news of their promotion, and I want them to do more with their rank.”
The CP said the synergy between the NRC and the police command had made their operation easy in his 10 months of being in the saddle at the command.
“They make our work easy in this command, not just in Lagos but nationwide.
He said the teamwork and accessibility of the NRC management had helped the command to achieve success.
Imue also commended officers in the command for their role in ensuring that security was always assured in the corporation’s operations across the country.
He, therefore, charged the newly-promoted officers to live up to their responsibilities saying, “if the police fail in their duties, Nigeria will be embarrassed’’.
In their remarks, the promoted officers expressed appreciation for the gesture and promised to rededicate themselves to the service of the Force.
ACP Chinaka said: “We thank President Muhammadu Buhari, the IGP and the CP, for considering us worthy for this promotion.
“We are very glad.”
ACP Audu noted that: “Other than the day a policeman receives his salary, the happiest time for him is when he is promoted.
“It is indeed a privilege for an officer to become a member of the management cadre of the Force with this promotion.”

			
			Post Views: 
			76