The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) on Monday advised Lagos residents to take necessary precautionary measures to prevent avoidable fire outbreak and road accident that could endanger lives and property.
The General Manager of the agency, Mr Michael Akindele, who gave the advice at a news briefing in Lagos, urged the people to be safety conscious on incidences that might lead to disaster.
Akindele also reminded motorists to imbibe safety culture, especially during the harmattan, which may last till the end of February in the state.
According to him, necessary precautionary measures should be taken to prevent avoidable fire outbreak, road accident and other emergency situations that could endanger lives and property.
“The agency is committed to reducing emergency and disasters to the barest minimum through continuous Public Advocacy/Campaign programmes at the grassroots.
“The agency plans to hold advocacy programmes with stakeholders on prevention, mitigation and rescue on emergencies.
“It will be held at the Blue Roof LTV8 Agindingbi, Lagos this month.
“The event will involve all first responders of emergency management with presentation on prevention and recovery during emergency,” Akindele said.
He promised that the agency would continue to hold periodic stakeholders meeting with relevant stakeholders to assess the level of preparedness for emergency and identify the roles and responsibilities of all stakeholders in the management of emergencies.
The general manager explained that the Local Emergency Management Committee in all the 57 Local Government/Local Council Development Areas have been restructured while 750 Local Emergency Responders have been trained.
He said that the steps would improve effectiveness and efficiency of the agency in the management of emergency and disaster in the state.
Akindele urged relevant stakeholders to partner with the State Government in reducing the occurrences of emergency and disaster that are avoidable.

			
			Post Views: 
			73