Share this on WhatsApp



 
The federal government has been urged to review downward the exorbitant charges being paid by airlines in the country as taxes and levies in other for them to sustain their businesses.
President of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, LCCI, Chief Nike Akande made this appeal at an event organised by the National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies, NANTA, where the Managing Director/CEO of Medview Airline, Alhaji Muneer Bankola was honoured as NANTA Eminent Person of the Year.
Akande, who is former Minister of Industry, said the downward review of the charges was needed so that the airlines would be able to sustain their operations, considering the critical role they play as catalyst to the economic development of the country.
Akande explained that this measure would also reduce the mortality rate of airlines and encourage new ones to spring up.
In her remarks at the event, the Deputy Governor of Ogun state, Mrs. Yetunde Onanuga, noted that the country is blessed in the area of tourism attractions ranging from beautiful beaches, flora and fauna, terrific cultural celebrations among others.
Onanuga said Ogun state used the recent Nigerian Drum Festival it hosted to showcase the different drums in the country.
In his welcome address, the President, NANTA, Mr. Bankole Bernard stated that Nigeria is a great nation, boating of profound mind and intelligent people. “Our people no doubt are highly sought after in other climes to fix their economics and re-engineer their future well-being. Unfortunately, the narrative on how we as a nation has treated our very best in our midst remains a mystery and huge spiritual disconnect to our quest to sustain some sense of collective appreciation to the efforts of those who volunteered or risked their life and reputation in the service of the father land.”
Also honoured at the event was the former Director General of the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), Chief Olusegun Runsewe. He was honoured with Tourism Legacy Award 2016 for his contribution to the growth of tourism in Nigeria. Other recipients included the immediate past Commissioner for Tourism and Culture Lagos state, Folorunsho Folarin Coker, for introducing the unique one Lagos brand event which helped in re-position Lagos in the area of tourism development within his short stay in office.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment