By EDIALE KINGSLEY
EPL Update: To start with, no amount of flops will wipe off Pep’s CV as one of the best coaches of the game. Yet as well no amount of Manchester United’s quick jibes at the fact that Pep got two defenders for 100M will justify Mourinho’s bad buy of Pogba at 150M. With that out of the way, Pep was a huge flop in this match against Leicester. Leicester City ran over Manchester City like the Fulani Cows grazing in the middle belt. In today’s match, Reneiri was the better reader. The smarter sub maker and the greater tactician.
Pep had his formation wrong as well as he had his sub wrong. This is the kind of game you start and end with Yaya Toure. The kind of game you play Iheanachor Kelechi full time.
The kind of game you play Silva deeper than deep, telling him to always send a long ball into the box 18 at the slightest opportunity. 4:2. The Vardy we know, we saw today. Hat-trick. Direct. Splendid.
Watford. Coming from a goal down to score three goals because they hated the way Lukaku celebrated his goal was…well served them right.
Laliga’s Update: Barca’s game was 3:0. Messi rose to the occasion. Scoring a brace.
Suarez scored one, but he isn’t in his best form. I am not a fan of balls ricocheting the posts. Hit the net, get my thumbs-up. At some point it looked like the goals where never going to come. And perhaps it won’t have if the offside goal by Suarez was called by the referee. But it’s football and these things happen. Osasuna had their chances but they only spent time practicing how to park the bus and forgot to practice hitting the target.
UCL Update: In a night where all they needed was getting a draw to top the group. They started great but Aubameyang took time to boot. So the Real Madrid guys took their chances. When the African’s Best finally got booted, he booted in a cool goal. Then the sensational Reus did his magic to give the guys from Spain a shock. 2:2 it ended.
Leicester City took it easy as their Porto counterpart didn’t. 5:0 lashing was how uneasy FC Porto wanted it to feel.
Dele Ali was on the top of his game today. He was practically my man of the match. His side won 3:1.
You just have to love Mesut Ozil and his theatrics. In the galaxies of gods, of soccer creatures and selected team of universe, you’ve got to enlist this dude. He may not be consistently stylish but when he dances the heart smiles in French. Iwobe has his first Champion’s league goal, thanks to this dancer in magic.
Talking about Nigerians and UCL goals, Iheanachor had a stunner for a goal. The exact kind of goals his Senior likes to score (I am sure we all know his senior).
Barcelona did what they are known to do best when they have a terrible hangover. 4:0 it ended, yet Suarez and Neymar didn’t play. Most of the first eleven didn’t. Iniesta is a wine.
Keeps getting superbly amazing even as he ages. Barca have got to break the bank for Continho next season. Messi was Messi. Busquet was Busquet of Pep’s time. And perhaps hence they had nothing to pressure them, tikitaka was visible.
Bayern had to rely on the golden foot of Lewandosky to pick up a well-earned three points. Believe me, it was not an easy match. Simone’s men packed the bus, they used per player fences and also went for the heels that came their way. In all these, Robben was brilliant.
Really don’t know why Anceloti had to sub him. Maybe that’s why he’s the coach and not me. Yet I think it was lame. All the subs he made were as lame as phurck. On their way home after match, rumors have it that they were singing “it wasn’t easy, but it was worth it”!
Then like I said before the matches kicked off. This PSG is a shadow of the former o. You know about that four o’clock shadow that comes in fours, yeah that one. Anybody beats them these days o. The Ludo guys almost ran over them. 2:2 this one ended.

			
			Post Views: 
			67