MMM Founder, Sergey Mavrodi has warned the federal government of the negative impact the collapse of the scheme will have on Nigerians.
According to him, the scheme has done a lot to improve the welfare of Nigerians and reduce poverty despite the fear expressed by the federal government that it is a ponzi scheme.
Writing an open letter, the Russian urged the government to look at the benefits of the scheme to over three million Nigerians in one year of its existence in the country, especially, where the scheme is the only source of livelihood for some Nigerians.
The open letter reads: ” So far MMM has come under a constant attack from you. In this regard, I would like to ask you a few simple questions. Since you are concerned with the interests of millions of your fellow citizens, I hope that  you would be so kind to answer them.
“What are you trying to get? Do you want the MMM System to collapse and millions of people to suffer? Who will support them then if MMM is their only means of livelihood? Will you? You even don’t pay wages to people? Or might you not care about them? Might you be using a trendy topic to make a good name for yourselves? What will you say to a mother who will have no money to buy food for her child? Will you let her child die for the sake of the higher interests of the economy?
“You say that MMM is a scam. What is the scam here, if all members are warned in advance about all the risks, the possible and impossible ones? They know there are no investments at all. The warning is a red text on a yellow background placed on most prominent place of the website.
“You say that MMM is bad. Why? Yes, it produces nothing, but nothing gets out of the country either. The money is just redistributed among the citizens of Nigeria. It gets from those who are richer to poorer ones, in this way restoring social justice. What”s wrong with that?
“You have repeatedly stated that “it should be investigated!.. researched!..” It means you know nothing about this System yet; you even haven’t understood how it works………
“And finally. If you know what is right for people, why is the life so bad in the country?”
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had warned against participation in the scheme while as the House of Representatives ordered a probe into its activities in the country.
 

			
			PV: 
			0