rescues 801 persons in 2 weeks

By OKOSUN DENNIS
The theatre Commander, Operation LAFIYA DOLE, Maj Gen Leo Irabor, on Wednesday expressed satisfaction with the successes recorded against the insurgents in Maiduguri leading to clearing the terrorism from the Sambisa forest.
While given update about the operation at the Headquarters Theatre Command, Maiduguri, said Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) have been cleared from their hideouts and moved deeper into Sambisa forest.
Gen Irabor further explained that the current incursion into the Sambisa forest is on various fronts led to the clearance of Goneri before harbouring at Goni Kurmi.
National Daily, however, learnt that while at harbour at Goni Kurmi the troops were attacked by the Boko Haram terrorists with the hope of slowing down their push but repelled them with the Boko Haram terrorists  suffering huge casualties.
Gen Irabor further reiterated that “On 5th  December  2016 the troops cleared all Boko Haram terrorists  delay positions before capturing Njimia. At Njimia our troops were attacked by the terrorists with Anti-Aircraft guns and small arms fire leading to the death of a soldier and a civilian.
“Yesterday, about 4.00pm, Intelligence Surveillance and Recconaisance aircraft identified Boko Haram terrorists massing up to attack own troops at Njimia.  Our Artillery  and air assets were used to engage the Boko Haram terrorists which led to the destruction of four vehicles, a fuel tanker laden with Improvised Explosive Devices. The Air Force also strafed and killed many fleeing insurgents.”
“The special forces continued with the offensive and entered the River Line “S” Shape in the heart of the Sambisa forest. However, our troops on this axis stepped on Boko Haram terrorists  Improvised Explosive Devices which was immediately followed by Boko Haram terrorists  attack.
“The attack was successfully repelled with several Boko Haram terrorists killed during the encounter battle. Unfortunately, we lost a soldier and nine others were wounded from the Improvised Explosive Devices incident.
The theatre commander, while giving further details about the ongoing operations said on the fourth axis, the troops cleared Boko Haram terrorists camps at Jefe, Ndenema and Turori villages and subsequently harboured at Kazalamari village.
“The advance continued and the troops successfully cleared and entered Sambisa Gate 1 and encountered Improvised Explosive Device and had contact with the Boko Haram terrorists at Garin Dinya village.
“A total of 19 Boko Haram terrorists  were killed while four AK-47 rifles and eight magazines including other weapons of the Boko Haram terrorists were captured. However, one officer, a soldier and two Civilian JTF were wounded in action and were airlifted by helicopter for medical attention.
Other villages cleared included Daban Giwa, Daban Masara,  Gratte and other adjoining villages killing 32 of their horses during cross fire.
Also, Kadauri, Yuramti and Mandari  Villages intercepted and apprehended 13 Boko Haram terrorists sympathizers and recovered the following items: five packets of Trammol, four new wrappers, 14 pairs of slippers, a world receiver radio, five packets of Maggi star, seven rolls of Klin detergent, a packet of 1.5v battery, two packets of matches, two sets of children wears, a bicycle tube, tyre/free wheel, really extra tablet, kola nuts and two half bags of salt.
National Daily gathered that in all the operations, a total of 801 persons were rescued from the Boko Haram terrorists between 23rd November – 5th December 2016. The breakdown shows that four Cattle Rustlers and a teenager were arrested by own troops deployed at Bulabulin Ngarnan with four cows.
In addition, arms were recovered from Kidnappers while on fighting patrol at the general area of Gamji and Kafin Lemu villages in Ningi LGA of Bauchi State and encountered some suspected kidnappers who engaged the troops in a gun battle, killed all of them and recovered five Dane guns, a locally made pistol, some cartridges and charms.
Gen Irabor further added that Person Borne Improvised Explosive Devise Explosion (PBIED) went off at general area of Muna Garage were a suicide bomber and his accomplice detonated their PBIED. Both the suicide bomber and his accomplice died in the process.
Besides that, Boko Haram terrorists  Ambush military’s convoy on 4th December 2016 at about 3.35pm, from Alagarno general area but due to reinforcement from troops deployed at Komala and Musafanari immediately cleared the ambush.
To accomplish its aim, additional three units were generated to improve on the manpower holding in the operations. Recently, additional special force battalion on completion of Theatre specific training was inducted.
Gen Irabor reiterated, “I can confirm to you that the Boko Haram Terrorists are in total disarray due to our current military operations. Even the Maman Nur and Shekau factions clashed again recently which has further forced the Boko Haram terrorists  remnants at Kafa to disperse in confusion and desperation.
He further emphasised that the misguided Boko Haram terrorists elements to give up their ignoble adventure, advised to surrender to the military or other security agencies without further delay and they would be humanely treated in line with international best practices and in accordance with the International Humanitarian Law, Gen Irabor added.
He admonished the general public to remain vigilant and report any suspicious movement of persons and objects to the military or to the nearest security agencies.

			
			Post Views: 
			296