The senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Shehu Sani, said, on Monday, that Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasiru El-Rufai and the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are merely wasting time and resources to keep him out of the party.
The senator, in a post on his Facebook page, on Monday, said the state chapter of APC has held eight press conferences since May 29, 2015 and that all have been about suspending Shehu Sani or ratifying his suspension. He said that such efforts would not stop him from opposing the set up in his state, adding, “Since we came to office on May 29 2015, El-Rufai’s Kaduna APC held about eight press conferences and all the eight press conferences were about ‘suspending Shehu Sani’ or ‘confirming the suspension of Shehu Sani’ or ‘ratifying the suspension of Shehu Sani’ or ‘affirming the suspension of Shehu Sani.’
“It has ridiculously reached to a point that each time Kaduna journalists are invited by El-Rufai’s Kaduna APC (it) is to write the repeated story of Shehu Sani’s suspension. I have been so suspended by El-Rufai’s men to the point that my car may not need suspenders again. I am also thinking of opening a private chemistry school to teach students on suspension.
“I remembered my elementary chemistry where suspension is defined as “a heterogenous mixture in which the solute particles do not dissolve but get suspended throughout the bulk of the medium”. I’m proud to be suspended by El-Rufai, a serpent in the caravan of change.” The serving senator also described the APC in Kaduna as “a congregation of political appointees of Mr Governor”, adding that their preoccupation was to ensure that the governor sleeps without noise from Shehu Sani.
He also wondered why he was accused of disrespecting APC in Kaduna while his accusers were at the same time allegedly showing disrespect to the party’s national vice chairman in the North West zone. “The very El-Rufai’s Kaduna APC that accused Shehu of disrespecting the ‘party’ is the same one that rained insults and abuses against the National Vice Chairman, North West who invalidated their cretinous vituperation.
“They are the same people who don’t recognise and respect any committee set up by the national secretariat of the party, including the one headed by Katsina State Governor Bello Masari.“Their suspension ends in the executive W/C and then the cesspit hole of their Government House where it will converge with the outcome of suya, pap and beans cake meal”, he said.

			
			Post Views: 
			51