Share this on WhatsApp



By OKOSUN DENNIS
The Presiding Bishop of the Redeemed Evangelical Mission (TREM), Bishop Mike Okonkwo has called on the youths worldwide not to be distracted by the lure of social network.
He said this on Thursday night worship while ministry at the ongoing Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Annual Convention at the Redemption camp in Ogun state.
He admonished the youths to be mindful of the time they spent on social media that would have been better utilised for propagating the word of God.
Okonkwo said, “We live in a world of distraction, discomfort and terrorism. The world is filled with demonic activities. No matter what the level of distraction, the God we serve is still the Almighty God.
“In the past, there are people that live in toxic environment. You must be focussed and must be constantly be with God. We must find out what God is doing even in toxic environment and exemplify him,” he reiterated.
He added that “Knowing God is knowing who you are, your strength, your ability and the potentials you have and over coming all satanic arrows over your life.
“There are lots if things the devil use to cause you distractions. All the social services and network. The social network is given to you to gossip the gospel.
What you carry is more than the world carries so why will the world distract you, he concluded.
Also speaking on the topic: A New Song, Pastor Ayodele Joseph Oritsegbubemi Oritsejafor, the founding and Senior Pastor of Word of Life Bible Church, located in Warri said you might have gone through difficult moments; you might have been accused, abused, degraded and gone through hard and excruciating times, you will sing a new song.
Quoting Job 42 v 2 and Psalms 122 v 1-2 admonished the congregation not to worry about that past difficult moments they went through as they remain old song, enjoining them that henceforth, they will sing a new song of victory, abundance, breakthroughs and conquer grounds they never thought they could achieve.
Pastor Oritsejafor reminded them that the only way to unlimited new songs remains embracing God totally and subjecting oneself to his commands and direction.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment