Share this on WhatsApp



The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has won both Rivers East and West senatorial seats in last Saturday’s rerun election.
The Rivers East Senatorial candidate of the People Democratic Party (PDP), Sen. George Sekibo defeated his rival Chief Andrew Uchendu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to reclaim the senatorial seat, while Osinachukwu Ideozu, won the Rivers West senatorial district election.
Prof. Orji Onu Okumenkama, who is the Returning Officer for the Rivers East Senatorial District declared the result at Port Harcourt City Local Government Council amidst heavy security.
Okumenkama said that Sekibo scored 93098 votes to win Uchendu who scored 34193 votes in the senatorial election.
Ideozu was declared winner with 107,166 votes defeating Otelemaba Amachree of the All Progressives Congress, APC, who polled 48,898 votes.
Earlier before the result of the Rivers East  was announced there was heavy shooting by security operatives who accompanied the governor of the state, Chief Nyesom Wike to the council headquarters.
The supporters and some candidates of the PDP in the election including Sekibo had taken over the Port Harcourt City council till the result was announced.
The PDP said that they were there based on information that the Minister of Transportation was on his way to come and hijack and doctor the result
Wike, had led hundreds of PDP members including His Chief of Staff, Mr. Emeka Woke, the Attorney General of the State, Emma Aguma, Uche Secondus, Chief Sergeant Awuse to the barricade the area.
Speaking at the Government House Port Harcourt after the result was declared, Wike, “I thank God for the strength and courage he has given to us in this election. We have really sacrificed. I know that freedom comes with sacrifice.
“Rivers people were murdered for just a simple legislative election. The federal government came with their might to conquer Rivers State, just because they want to win. They killed people because they want the state.
“The blood of those people they killed will be on their heads. States that cannot pay their workers salary and cannot carry out meaningful project in their states brought money to rig election in this state.
“They should be ashamed because they won one but we won two of the senatorial seats. They fought but God said, no way! Do not be intimidated. This will never happen in 2019. They have shown us that there is no democracy in Nigeria if not why not they conduct election the way it is been done in other countries.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment