The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has criticized Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state over his comment about the commission.
According to INEC, Wike’s comment that the commission was planning to rig the upcoming Rivers rerun in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is dangerous and capable of inciting people to commit violence. Recall that Wike had accused INEC of releasing an APC dominated list of ad-hoc staff, for the December 10 rerun elections.
He added that INEC had included APC ward chairmen and ward secretaries as assistant presiding officers.
But in a statement signed by Rotimi Oyekanmi, INEC’s chief press secretary, the commission strongly condemned Wike, stating that his comments were capable of inciting the people to commit violence, The Nation reports.
The commission therefore appealed to stakeholders to henceforth refrain from making pronouncements that could either overheat the state or instigate their followers to violence.
INEC also reassured Nigerians it is impartial and committed in conducting credible, fair and transparent elections at all times.
The statement read: “Commission condemns, in very strong terms, the relentless false allegations, provocative and dangerous comments being made by some political actors, especially the Governor of River state, Nyesom Wike against the Commission, all of which are capable of inciting people to commit violent acts that could derail the election.
“We appeal to stakeholders to henceforth refrain from making pronouncements that could either overheat the state or instigate their followers to violence. We also appeal to all the political parties and their supporters to abide by all the extant laws governing the electoral process.
“We wish to reassure all Nigerians that the Commission will remain impartial and committed to conducting credible, fair and transparent elections at all times.”
The recent Edo and Ondo governorship elections, according to the commission, “eloquently speak of the feat that can be achieved if all stakeholders do the needful.”
INEC also disclosed that all efforts have been made to ensure that the elections were concluded on Saturday, December 10.
Meanwhile, Governor Wike who has described himself as a peace maker and not a trouble maker, urged Rivers youths to fear no harm as they go out in droves to vote.
He charged the youths to protect their votes, stressing that no one should be intimidated by the actions of the Police and other security agencies.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			33