Former President Goodluck Jonathan yesterday at Gbaramatu Kingdom, Delta State, said it is unsafe to talk about events and situation of things in Nigeria.
The reluctance of the former president to speak on national issues raises concern about his standing with the incumbent administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, which has accused many of his ministers, aides and party men of barefaced corruption during his six years of governance.
Against Buhari’s sustained onslaught, the expectation is for Jonathan to offer some explanation to dispel the heavy charge of corruption against him and his government. But the ex-President in pleading his constraints, said so much by saying nothing.
Gbaramatu, the hometown of ex-militant leader Government Ekpemupolo, also known as Tompolo, has been under military siege. Tompolo, whose late father was the Pere of Gbaramatu Kingdom, has been accused of short-changing the Federal Government in a contract he signed with the Jonathan administration. The military had invaded the community for at least three times in the last one year.
Jonathan who was special guest of honour at the presentation of staff of office to the 26th Pere of Gbaramatu Kingdom, HRM Oboro Gbaraun II Aketekpe, Agadagba, said the country is passing through serious challenges and that making comments now about it is not the best thing to do.
He said Gbaramatu has been so associated with violence and militancy that most people would not believe that such a ceremony would be held peacefully in the kingdom. Jonathan said Nigeria is a country of resilient people and that the challenges facing the country would soon be over.
The former President lauded the Pere of Gbaramatu and urged the monarch to use his traditional stool to enthrone peace in the kingdom.
The presentation of staff of office is a follow up to the monarch’s selection, confirmation and installation as Pere of Gbaramatu kingdom after following due process as specified under section 8 of the Traditional Rulers and Chiefs Edict of 1979 regulating succession to the throne.
Speaking during the event, the Ibe-Benemowei of Gbaramatu, Chief Godspower Gbenekama in strong terms begged the Governor of Delta State, Ifeanyi Okowa, to use his office to stop the daily harassment and invasion of Gbaramatu people by the military.

			
			PV: 
			0