Share this on WhatsApp



Suspected killers of Mr Istifanus Bello Gurama have been reportedly apprehended by operatives of the Inspector General of Police’ (IGP) Intelligence Response Team. Gurama, a senior strategist with Dangote Industries, was said to be found murdered, his body was dumped in a gutter by his assailants. National Daily gathered that Abubakar Gide (24), Babuga Adamu (25) and Abdulahi Saliu(22) were arrested at Ijebu-Igbo forest, Epe forest in Lagos and Ipo forest in Kwara state, where they fled to.
The operatives, led by Abba Kyari, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, recovered three AK47 rifles and 167 live ammunition, which the suspects buried in the forest. It was gathered the suspects led the police to where they buried the deceased. Gurama was taken hostage about three weeks ago at Ijebu-Igbo in Ogun state, after he went to secure release of four expatriates and a Nigerian working with the company.
Reports suggest that the deceased, who usually negotiates with kidnappers and takes ransom to them, was detained by the gunmen, who said they were after him. The firm raised money for his release, which the kidnappers collected. They killed and dumped his body in a pit at Ijebu-Igbo. Sources said his death might not be unconnected with fears by the suspects that he could expose them. It was learnt they accused Gurama of knowing too much and giving them away.
Another source said he might have been killed because the kidnappers wanted more money. Confirming the arrest, police spokesman Don Awunah, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), said the suspects were being interrogated.He urged Nigerians to exercise caution in negotiating with and delivering ransom to kidnappers, adding that the police should always be involved.
Awunah said: “It was when IGP Ibrahim Idris learnt of the incident that he directed the IRT to fish out the kidnappers. “One of them was arrested at Ijebu Igbo forest, the other at Epe forest in Lagos and the third at Ipo forest in Kwara state. ‘’The crime was committed at Ijebu-Igbo in Ogun State. The suspects are being interrogated and would be prosecuted at the conclusion of investigation.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment