Share this on WhatsApp



Members of the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), and Air Transport Senior Staff Services Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) have commenced strike action at Arik Air following the airline’s failure to pay seven months’ salary arrears and other anti-labour practices.
In a signed statement made available to National Daily, signed by General Secretary of NUATE, Olayinka Abioye and the Gen-Sec of ATSSSAN, Frances Akinjole, the Unions said the strike would continue indefinitely, until their demands were met by the management of Arik Air.
It was also signed by the General Secretary of the National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE), Aba Ocheme.
The unions in the statement said all ground handling services, security clearance for Arik Air ticket holders, marshalling, aviation fuel supply, air traffic control, safety inspection, etc, will be completely withdrawn.
Their demands include: “That the management of Arik Air allows total unionisation of its employees, in compliance with extant labour laws and with respect to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
“The management of Arik Air recalls all sacked employees who have been victimized for their roles in the effort to bring about unionisation in Arik Air. Payment of salary arrears for seven months, with a commitment to pay salaries as at when due, henceforth.”
They also called for the immediate review of all employee remunerations which had remained the same since the inception of Arik Air, over ten years ago.
The unions further demanded for immediate commencement of negotiations of Conditions of Service to be concluded within four weeks and remittance of Pension, Tax, and statutory deductions to the appropriate authorities.
They also urged the management of Arik Air to comply with the Nigerian Expatriate Quota law. “Towards the full realisation of the strike, all aviation workers, in complete solidarity with their enslaved comrades in Arik Air shall withdraw all services being rendered by third parties.
According to the unions, aviation workers will be supported by Nigerian workers from all other sectors throughout Nigeria, to underscore the seriousness of the matter at hand.
“All Arik Air employees, aviation workers, and other stakeholders are hereby enjoined to ensure full compliance with this directive please,” the unions said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment