Share this on WhatsApp



These bands charge on a regular N1.5 million to N2.5 million per show, just within Lagos. Ediale Kingsley brings you the list of top notch music performance money can buy
Eboni Band
God Bless Ubiebifayen led-Eboni Band is an indigenous entertainment outfit formed in 1998, to take music entertainment in Nigeria to a higher level. The desire to achieve this is very much so, especially due to the calibre of talented and experienced individuals who are involved with the group.
Eboni Band as an entertainment outfit has consistently organized and maintained a high standard of live music performances since its inception in 1998.
The group has played and currently maintains appearance dates in most of the top clubs in Lagos and in other states across Nigeria. Clubs like, Swe Bar, Suzy Q, etc. Eboni Band played in Mike Adenuga’s birthday, high profile weddings, MTN, Glo, just to mention a few.
In the quest to create a band that would skillfully render a cross section of music genres of hip hop, high-life, jazz, rhythm and blues, reggae to name a few, the band leader, Mr. God Bless Ubiebifayen, who is also the lead vocalist and music director put this band together in 1998 and has over the years with rigorous rehearsals, established a band of his dream.
Godbless decided to come up with an album entitled, Girl Of My Dreams. This album is a nine tracker, with songs like; Ogogoro, Girl of my Dreams, Body Calling and You Thief My Heart Comot.
Shuga Band
Shuga Band is a Lagos based 14 piece group, led by Shuga (AkinloyeTofowomo). A widely travelled band, it has featured in high profile events like ECOWAS Heads of States Dinner. Mike Adenuga’s daughter’s wedding and events in and out of Nigeria.
Shuga Band is one of the best bands in Nigeria. It consists of young and talented musicians who see music more as a passion than a trade. They bridge the gap between the young and the old at parties, rendering legendary old school tunes and blending them with African flavours. Their huge list of high profile clients include President Goodluck Jonathan, Mike Adenuga, former president; Olusegun Obasanjo, former Vice President, Atiku, former Oyo state governor, AlaoAkala and so many others. Shuga Band has always been and remains the toast of the high and mighty.
The band provides quality live music to corporate and individual clients from all spheres of influence, delivering a totally unique and exciting musical experience. From a wedding band that plays traditional love songs, to a punk band that can really get the joint jumping, The Shuga Band is adaptable, flexible, and performs dynamic sounds, creating rich harmonies. The Shuga Band is known for up-tempo secular flair, swing-beat, R’n’B, dance tunes, oldies, country, traditional, soulful arrangements and more.
Sharp Band
Sharp Band started in the mid/late 90’s by some young teenagers as a tease and play music group. It metamorphosed into a professional music band in 2000. Had its first official assignment as professional band to tour the country with the then Golden Tones Grab The Mic singing contest. It was the main band and also the cover band to all the contestants. Since then the band has been performing in and outside the country and has graced big events for the high and mighty, shakers and movers of our land.
Sharp Band can be traced way back to the days of PintoesJazzville and Club Tower when they used to entertain fun seekers at the now rested fun spots. The band has been able to stand the test of time and has done cover for almost all Nigerian (now and then) musicians.
Sharp Band has grown not just as band, but as an institution, that impacts positive music, and showbiz knowledge to its employees. It’s also, an employer of labour with a 25 man workforce (drivers, stage hands, sound engineers, singers).
Due to the band, strength and workforce, it has the capability of carrying out a hitch-free event. Despite Sharp Band’s highly placed performances from presidential to state stakeholders, the band considers its biggest break to be when they were invited and privileged to perform at the Commonwealth Heads of State meeting in Abuja some years ago. Sharp Band’s clients include stakeholders, industries, telecoms firms, leading event planners, state governments, Presidency, amongst others.
Sharp Band skillfully renders a cross-section of music like hip hop, high-life, jazz, rhythm & blues, reggae and tungba. They have performed in high profile events like president daughter s wedding. Senator ItaGiwa daughter’s wedding, P-Square wedding. Sahara Energy end of year parties, MTN, Airtel, Sir Tony Ezenna daughter’s wedding, just to mention a few.
Roots Renaissance Band
Foremost folk and roots music connoisseur, Beautiful Nubia, and his 14 man Roots Renaissance band, dock in a place in Lagos when they are not touring and tearing through towns and cities in Nigeria and the Diaspora. EniObanke Arts Centre at No 19 AdekunleFajuyi Way, GRA, Ikeja is that place where they conduct the business of making good music at frequently regular intervals whenever they are in town. You should check it out.
Positive Force Band
Still in Ikeja, Fela’s scion and an originator of Afrobeat in his own right, Femi Anikulapo-Kuti and his Positive Force Band host half of Lagos mainland whenever he is in town. With a weekly schedule similar to his father’s, Femi performs regularly at the New Afrika Shrine at Agidingbi walking distance from the bureaucratic Alausa. Beyond good music, cannabis joint and other cannabis-related products, you can get the best pounded yam here at any time of the day. Consistently, this venue has remained the gathering spot for the yearly pilgrimage of music in October called Felabration.
Playful Extasi Band
If you are up for pared down but brilliant afrobeat music once every week, then spend your Wednesday evenings at Freedom Park. The mid-week is a good time to catch up on a few beers and redolent musicand who is the better at re-enacting brilliant numbers if not Seun Olota, the multi-talented instrumentalist and his playful Extasi band. Here, regulars are allowed to medley a few of their popular songs on a regular too.
Afrogenius Band
In the evening of the first Thursday of every month, EdaotoAgbeniyi and his Afrogenius band come out to tan. With horns, guitars and drums, they jam out a hodge-podge of afrobeat, reggae and folk music rhythms. You are more likely than not to find a woman blessed with a huge derrière giving her structure an attitudinal shake. People are known to bump their heads to the moving clarity of Edaoto’s voice. In fact, one person once kicked his table and upset his chilled beer.
Afrosoul Band
They say that what a man can do, a woman can do it betterand it is true. Aduke, with her brand of Afrosoul and that bold voice that chronicles Lagos life, is the ish. She was the poster girl of the subsidy campaign but that is a small tick on her resume. Since then, she has moved on to making more music and touring countries including the United States of America. Actress, dancer and consummate performer, Aduke knows how to move the stage and rock the mic.
Bantu’s Band
A 13 man collective with Afro-German rapper, AdegokeOdukoya in the lead, Bantu is has a cultural event in Lagos. With their monthly show, Afropolitan Vibes every third Friday of the month, they shut down all the streets on the Lagos Island when their sessions start. Long meandering queues curl out of the former colonial prison while loud and energetic music erupts from behind the rather tall mud fence. With a different line-up of guest artists monthly, this show is better experienced than narrated.
Adrenaline Band
Behind every fantastic performance are terrific backup singers and exceptional instrumentalists. The Adrenaline Band has been the magic behind performances on project fame season after season. They just know how to make it happen on MTN Project fame. The band includes Abdulwahab Olanrewaju Oyeniyi, WF Samuel Leumas, Ivy Aniowo, Goodnews Nwajagu, Doreen Nwajagu, James Nseyen, Iam Tochy Favour, Uzochukwu Favour, Ephraim Benjamin III, Blessing Burberry and Pen Griffey Ezics.
Veentage Band
They claim to be world class and surely they live by their pronouncement. The 1st lady of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, has been spotted dancing to the live performances of this band.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment