Share this on WhatsApp



The Nigerian Communication Commission, NCC, has disclosed that it is working assiduously to meet the expectations of the approved National Broadband Implementation Plan, which has set a target of 30 Per cent broadband penetration by 2018.
Executive Vice Chairman of the commission, Prof Garba Umar Danbatta stated this in a speech presented at the Telecom Executives and Regulator Forum held at the Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos on Thursday.
According to Danbatta, the present 21 per cent as adjudged by the International Telecommunication Union gives credence to the immense work and determination of the commission to meet the target.
Also speaking on the 8-point agenda, Prof Danbatta said the challenges facing telecom’s quality of service are multidimensional. “We have set up a taskforce in the commission that has provided comprehensive medium, and long terms solutions, which the Commission is recently implementing”
He stated that the issue of multiple taxation and multiple regulations top the list. “We have in the course of the past year, engaged very critical stakeholders, especially the State Governors. It was in one of these efforts that we achieved the unsealing of 47 Base Stations in Ogun State, recently. We hope to continue that effort in the coming year, including awareness about the dangers of using devices that degrade quality of service by consumers.”
He said there is the need for collaboration and partnerships among stakeholders in other to ensure an atmosphere of Eldorado for both the consumers and operators. “This is the reason why we are here today. As a deliberate policy of stakeholder engagement, this approach has improved our knowledge of stakeholder needs, improved channels of communications and resolved many regulatory issues.”
According to him, consumer protection and empowerment remains the heart of the 8-point agenda with the consumer being the prime in the scheme of focus. “With more than 153.5 Million active lines, reaching approximately 109.7% teledensity, with 97 Million Internet penetration and very active social media environment, there is no doubt that it is an uphill task, to which the Commission has committed to mount.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment