Share this on WhatsApp



As Amosun and Adeola war of wits gathered momentum




Ogun State Government has marked the Ilaro country home of Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola (Yayi), representing Lagos West Senatorial District for demolition.
National Daily source explained that the incumbent governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun has directed the Urban and Physical Planning Ministry of his government to go on a demolishing spree of the properties identified to be properties of Senator Adeola.
The demolition notice came after Senator Adeola hosted over 200 former Ogun State local government councillors in the property. The ministry officials visited the mansion on the 6th of December, 2016 giving the owner a notice of demolition in 3 days.
The source further briefed National Daily that other targeted properties of Senator Adeola targeted for demolition include his Abeokuta GRA residence and few of the residences of his Ogun State political supporters like that of Rt Hon Tunji Egbetokun, former Speaker and Pastor Remi Hassan the former Deputy Speaker of the Ogun State House of Assembly.
Reports suggest that the governor is going increasingly impatient and intolerant with the growing popularity of Senator Adeola coupled with his visible physical political appearances in the state.
Efforts by National Daily to reach the Ogun State born Lagos politician or his media adviser Bashorun Kayode Odunaro proved abortive.
National Daily further gathered that the state government had stationed a bulldozer and an excavator less than 1km away to effect the demolition as soon as the 3 day deadline lapses.
National Daily gathered that Senator Adeola is a gubernatorial aspirant in the state. A political move that us rattling the incumbent Governor Amosun.
Among the things going for Senator Adeola is that he hails from Ogun West Senatorial District, a district that is yet to produce a Governor in the 40 year history of the State.
Senator Adeola enjoys the backing of Aremo Segun Osoba and his political block in the gateway State. Recently teachers in public schools as well as public officials in the State adopted Senator Adeola as their preferred candidate for the Oke Mosan Government House. A move that earned their leaders dismissal from service, but we’re later recalled after they threatened industrial action and held a meeting with Governor Amosun.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment