President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday said the 2017 Appropriation Bill that he would present to the joint session of the National Assembly on Wednesday would take Nigeria out of recession.
Buhari said this in his Eid-el Maulud message to Nigerians.
In the message which he personally signed, the President said with collective dedication and hard work, Nigerians would in 2017 overcome the economic difficulties, and return the country to the path of prosperity.
He urged Nigerians not to allow the reality of the temporary challenges to undermine their hope or reverse the collective will to succeed.
Rather, he said the challenges should remind them why they needed to remain united.
The President’s message read, “Again, the calendar of life has brought us into another period of celebration, and deep reflection. Celebration, because we are marking the birth of Prophet Mohammed (Peace Be Upon Him), and deep reflection, because it is another opportunity of pausing, taking a deep breath and reflecting on the current realities before us.
“First of all, I wish all Muslims a happy and memorable celebration of the birth of the great Prophet, through whose teachings, particularly on peaceful living, tolerance, sobriety, generosity, sacrifice and honesty, and wisdom, the nation has gained immensely in building a harmonious and prosperous society. The universal truths of the Prophet’s values remain unchanged.
“Against all odds, we have used these pillars of strength in securing a just and fair society, and our efforts are beginning to yield dividends in curbing terrorism, militancy, corruption and other crimes that devalue our humanity.
“As we use the memorable occasion of this celebration to reflect on our current challenges, I urge you not to lose faith in the ability of this administration to make a difference in the lives of our people.
“The reality of the temporary challenges should not undermine our hope, reverse our collective will to succeed, or divide us; rather it should remind us of why we need to stay together, fight together and succeed together.
“We all share a vision of a better Nigeria, and we will all share in the responsibility of building the country of our dreams.

			
			Post Views: 
			156