Share this on WhatsApp



By ISAAC TERSOO AGBER
 If you haven’t travelled through Africa, you may have missed a wonderful experience. But here is an opportunity. The 12th Akwaaba Africa Travel Market (AfTM) takes a new twist as it hosts the maiden edition of Africa Travel and Tourism Conference this year. The aim is to tap knowledge of the travel, hospitality and aviation industries from highly rated experts drawn from various climes. And the annual travel and tourism exhibition, also, will be richly packed for tourists and business travelers at this year’s event, slated for October 31, 2016 in Lagos.
The organizers of the event believe this new development will be a very important part of the event as they intend to enrich the experiences of delegates, visitors and stakeholders on most current information within the related sectors — travel and tourism.
Mrs. Rita Ikechi-Uko, the chief organizer, explained that she is “delighted about the prospects of this new dimension we are adding to the travel exhibition this year. We are passionate about catalyzing change in the tourism and travel landscape in Africa. This new aspect will definitely be an eye opener for many of the delegates and guest. And will position Africa on the path of global relevance on most current information on that sector.”
According to her, speakers, during the Travel and Tourism Conference, will be addressing topics and dealing with issues such as Travel in Africa: Aviation and Immigration, a needed Symbiosis; Immigration as a Catalyst for Growth of Travel and Tourism in Africa; The State of Aviation in Africa and The State of Tourism in Africa.
ALSO SEE: Richard Anderson to succeed as Chairman of Delta Airlines’ Board
Other topics that will form part of the discourse include: The Internet and Future of Travel in Africa; Tourism Planning: a needed tool for Sustainable Tourism Development; Hotel Standardization and Classification as a tool for Tourism Growth; Meeting, incentives, conventions and events in Africa, among other topics.
The Africa Travel & Tourism Conference takes stage on the 2nd day of the event, being October 31, 2016, and will be open only to registered travel and tourism practitioners. This is an opportunity for all knowledge seekers in the area of Tourism, Travel, Aviation, and Hospitality Sectors to crave for.
Rita concludes that “Akwaaba is emerging as, not only an exhibition, but also a learning and empowerment opportunity. Global experts, like Dr. Auliana Poon of Tourism Intelligence International, one of the Biggest names in travel and tourism research in the World, alongside Eran Ketter, an Israeli Communication and media expert, and a guru on destination branding Paul Cohen, and Bob Bamgboyi, a  hotel digital exponent, have, in the past, been lead Speakers at Akwaaba.”
Last Year the 11th edition of Akwaaba featured rated experts like Seyi Olusanya of Once Upon a Destination, who delivered a paper on Planning a Destination Wedding, Adefunke Adeyemi of IATA Regional Head, Member and External Relations Africa and the Middle East, lectured on Transforming Intra-Africa Air Connectivity and Captain Ado Sanusi, Deputy Managing  Director, Arik Air, also delivered a lecture at the Aviation Day that attracted travel agents and tour operators in Nigeria and the West- African Coast, local and international airlines operational in Nigeria, aviation ministries and agencies in Nigeria, aviation analysts and travel, aviation and tourism journalists.
The Hospitality Day featured workshops and presentations by notable individuals in the industry, and topics like Innovation & Payment for the Modern Hotel, Online Booking in Nigeria-How does it Work, Standardizing Hotels across West-Africa were looked into. And finally rounded up by Wine Tasting lecture, titled: How to know Your Wine, delivered by Chief Jerry Rowland of Westlog Nigeria Limited.
African Travel Market is the only international Travel Fair in West Africa, a population of 270 Million people with 15 Countries, numerous Airports and the largest number of Travelers in Africa. The event takes place in Lagos, Nigeria and held at the end of October each year.
Over the years, Akwaaba Travel Market has grown to become the most important travel marketing platform in the region drawing attendance from over7,000 to 10,000 Visitors from 20 Countries.
ALSO SEE: Bukky Wright astonishingly confessed her stake in lesbianism, children and 4th marriage
This Travel Fair not only boasts a large amount of visitors but also excels in the promotion of the exhibitors from the region’s leading hotels, airlines, travel agents, tour operators and similar industry suppliers who participates in the event.
The event will also feature a 3-day business to business event presenting a diverse range of destinations to Africa and international travel professionals, it is a unique opportunity for African travel trade market to meet, negotiate, network and conduct businesses with players from elsewhere.
AKWAABA, approved by the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC) as the official travel exhibition in Nigeria, is listed by UNWTO, a partner event of ATA and the only member of ITTFA in West Africa. Tour Operators Union of Ghana, the National Association of Nigerian Travel Agents, African Business Travel Association and the Nigerian Association of Tour Operators have all endorsed Akwaaba African Travel Market.
To be a part of the richly packed event this year, travel and tourism professionals can register at the website, www.africantravelmarkets.com or email akwaabatravelmarket@yahoo.com, either as a hosted buyer or delegate. Delegates are expected from aviation and tourism ministries, commissions and departments, State tourism boards, staff from hospitality firms and agencies and the general public, seeking to know more about travels, tourism and other training exposures. And at the end of the event, the organizers would issue certificates to attendees apart from other gifts.
Akwaaba Africa Travel Market will be taking place from the 30th Oct. to the 1st of November 2016, at the Eko Hotels & Suites Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment