Share this on WhatsApp



…as financing rises to N.14trn
By Odunewu Segun
As part of the Central Bank of Nigeria determination to improve lending to the real sector of the economy, the apex bank has about N1.36 trillion as part of its finance interventions across the country.
According to the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, who made the disclosure recently at a seminar in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, said the interventions would help stimulate employment generation and boost accretion to foreign reserves through non-oil exports.
A breakdown of  the disbursements showed N300 billion had been set aside for Real Sector Support Facility (RSSF); N220 billion had also been disbursed for the Micro-Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund (MSMEDF); the  Nigeria Incentive Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) got N75 billion; and the Nigeria Electricity Market Stabilization Fund received N213 billion.
ALSO SEE: Foreign investments inflow in oil sector decline by 85.7% by 2015
The CBN governor noted that though the real sector, which consisted of the agricultural, industrial, building and constructive sub-sectors accounted for 93.67 percent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2000, its contribution, had since declined to 76.21 percent and 70.71 percent in 2010 and 2013, respectively.
Represented by the CBN Deputy Governor, Corporate Services, Mr. Adebayo Adelabu, he said concerted efforts were ongoing to deepen credit delivery to the real sector through several interventions and schemes.
“The far reaching objectives of the CBN in the implementation of schemes and programmes for real sector development focus on the inherent potential in the sector is-a-vis our conviction that the sector has sufficient employment capabilities, high growth potentials, contributes significantly in accretion to foreign reserves, expands the industrial base and apparently diversifies the growth potentials of the national economy.”
He said the recent exclusion of 41 items from accessing forex from the CBN official window and stoppage of sale of forex to bureaux de change (BDC) operators were part of bold policy initiatives by the bank to resuscitate domestic industries and improve employment generation.
Adelabu said in his speech earlier that the seminar was to let participants into the core principles behind the actions of the CBN to act as financial catalyst in targeted sectors of the economy with humongous potential for creating jobs, reducing the country’s import bills in a very significant manner. He also expressed optimism that the forum would serve as an ideal platform to stimulate and reinforce national discussions on all issues.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment