By ADEDEJI FAKOREDE
THE Executive Vice chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, has expressed his commitment towards the realization of the eight point agenda aimed at developing Information and Communications Technology in the country within the next five years.
He made the pledge when unveiling his eight-point agenda for telecommunications from 2015 to 2020, in Kano. The eight point agenda includes facilitating broadband penetration where he intend to provide and optimize access to and use of affordable fixed and mobile broadband everywhere in Nigeria, support availability universally.
On improved Quality of Service, he said: “We’ll promote the availability of reliable, interoperable, rapidly restorable critical information and technology infrastructure that are supportive of all required services in order to strengthen measures for quality of service (QoS) regulation”.
Optimize usage and benefits of spectrum: “this vision is to maximize the availability of spectrum in order to provide diverse and affordable ICT services and ensure spectrum acquisition does not distort market competition.
Also in the agenda is to promote ICT innovation and investment opportunities. “By this we will promote ICT innovation in ways that improve the nation’s ability to complete in the global economy, through increased investment in the youth a promotion of SMEs for the delivery of new business breakthrough.”
ALSO SEE: NCC seeks collaborative effort to protect telecoms infrastructure
Facilitate strategic collaboration and partnership; where the Commission will develop effective partnership with relevant stakeholder to foster ICT for sustainable economic development and social advancement.
Protect and empower consumers: “we will protect consumers from unfair practices through availability of information and education required to make informed choices in the use of ICT services initiatives are to be strengthened.
Promote fair competition and inclusive growth: “To actualize this, we will ensure a competitive market for communication services that foster fair inclusion of all actors, in innovative ways that facilitate new investment, job creation and consumers satisfaction.”
Ensure regulatory excellence and operational efficiency: “Since our regulatory expertise is first among equal, we will ensure an effective regulatory framework, efficient processes, and strict compliance monitoring and enforcement. Efficient management of internal resources and structure, and maintain a commitment to transparency.”

			
			PV: 
			0