Facebook collect of Jessica McGraa. A young mumís secret double life as a £200-an hour prostitute emerged after she was found murdered in a rented flat in Aberdeen 600 miles from her London home. See Centre Press story CPESCORT; A young mumís secret double life as a £200-an hour prostitute emerged after she was found murdered in a rented flat 600 miles from her home. Jessica McGraa, 36, left her young son at home in London to sell sex in cities across the UK and was found dead in Aberdeen. Tragic Jessica who offered the "ultimate girlfriend experience" boasted online of taking regular holidays around the world. Shocked friends of the doting mum said she told them she worked as a stripper to pay for bringing up her son.
        Share this on WhatsApp



Gareth McGraa, the 56-year-old husband of late ‘runs-girl’, Jessica McGraa, has revealed that he was unaware of the fact that his wife was a prostitute. He claimed his late wife was a committed Christian.
Jessica had successfully hidden her ‘favourite pastime’ from her unassuming husband. McGraa, had assumed his wife was selling hair extensions to help take care of her very expensive lifestyle.
In his words “I honestly believed that she was making her money from hair extensions. She was a very pious girl, she dragged me to church even and that’s not easy.”
McGraa who could not hide his grief, said he had reunited with Jessica several times and had hoped they would get back together eventually. They had split when their six-year-old son was barely a year old. Jessica had flaunted her luxurious lifestyle on her social media pages, including showing off trips to Hong Kong, New York, including the Italian Riviera.
ALSO SEE: Ageless Chi Trend: The Shirt Dress
Gareth who met his late wife, Jessica, in a Port Harcourt bar in 2005, when he was working as a chief mechanic with Atlantic Drilling in Nigeria, had this to said
“Coincidentally I was being transferred to Lagos and she was going there at the same time so we travelled together. We were married in Nigeria very shortly after that. Her family members were there and we celebrated in a hotel restaurant in Lagos. I knew she was using me for a passport to a certain extent but I felt more than that.
Gareth revealed that he, Jessica and their son enjoyed a family Christmas, spending five days at a spa hotel.
“We had our barneys, like couples do but I spoke to her every other day. She was with me for 10 years.”
Gareth said he spoke to Jessica three days before she was found dead in the flat in Aberdeen. Insisting he had no idea she was a prostitute. Here’s what he reportedly told the police when they came to break news of her death to him.
“She liked to be the centre of attention but she wasn’t a girl to put it about, she wasn’t at all like that, never. When I met her, I don’t think she’d had more than a handful of lovers in all her life. She wasn’t cheap and liked her Gucci and Armani handbags. She loved the high life and wanted all her dreams to come true tomorrow. But she was also a pious person who believed in God. I knew what I was walking into but I really cared for the girl. To my mind, and hers, we were going to get back together at some point. Not just me, the two of us. I wanted it, she wanted it so why not? But I only ever got half the story. I thought I knew her and it hurts.”
ALSO SEE: Fashion Trends Forecast 2016
25-year-old Bala Wadzani Chinda has been arraigned at the Aberdeen Sheriff court, in connection to Jessica’s murder. He made no plea or declaration when he appeared at the Scottish city’s Sheriff Court, and has been remanded in custody ahead of another court appearance next week.
The police has however renewed an appeal for anyone who had either seen or spoke to Jessica, days before her death, to contact the police department. Jessica’s double life as prostitute exposed when she was found dead
Ms Jessica McGraa was uncovered as a sex worker after her dead body was discovered in a flat in Aberdeen.
Jessica allegedly left her six-year-old son at home in London while she took a two day trip to work in Aberdeen.
She kept the nature of her work private, and her friends and ex-husband were shocked to find out she worked as a prostitute.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment