IPOB members say lack of weapons has exposed them to attacks
Separatists back new intention with acts and declarations of the United Nations
Reject terrorists’ tag by any world leader

The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) members have resolved to start carrying guns in self-defence from Wednesday, February 17, 2016.
According to Igberetvnews, this disclosure was made by the Emma Nmezu, group’s spokesperson in Umuahia yesterday, adding that failure to carry arms had exposed its members to attacks and killings by security agents.
The statement read: “Now, we have come to the painful but irreversible conclusion and determination to take our fate and destiny in our own hands. Starting from Wednesday, February 17, 2016, ‘Biafrans’ will now be in the mode of self defence as enshrined by the relevant acts and declarations of the United Nations.
“Let no country or world leader attempt to tag us as terrorists because we are not terrorists, rather we are fighting for our survival and from being exterminated from the surface of the earth.
ALSO SEE: Nigeria is coming apart at the seams
“We shall defend ourselves with everything and anything necessary to avoid the continual killing of our mothers, fathers, and children. This is the time for all Biafrans to rise and defend themselves. We cannot fold our arms and watch them kill us the second time after killing over two million of us in 1968.”
IPOB had in a statement last year September alerted the world on plans to provoke Biafrans into retaliation but got a tag of terrorist organization in return.
Meanwhile, Chris Adimora, the chairman of Anaocha branch of the NBA, commented on the repeating denial of bail to the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu.
Adimora shared his thoughts and observation with newsmen in his Onitsha office on Friday, February 12 thus: “The reasons adduced by the prosecution for refusing Kanu bail is not tenable. He did not commit any offence by having dual citizenship. He can’t be refused bail because his charges are still mere allegation which are not yet proven.”

			
			Post Views: 
			119