Share this on WhatsApp



By ALEX OLISE
THREE persons have been remanded in Kirikiri Maximum prison in Lagos State following their involvement in the recent gruesome murder of a young man inside a hospital at Oke-Odo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of the State.
The three suspects were said to be part of cult group who had trailed the victim to the hospital last week and machete him to death on his bed where he was receiving treatment.
It was learnt that immediately information of his murder got to the police at Oke-odo division, the operatives swung into action and combed the entire vicinity leading to the arrest.
National Daily, gathered that the father of the victim was later quizzed by police authorities for his failure to first report the incident to the police until police got the information from second party instead of the family.
A further check by our reporter reveals that the attack which claimed the life of the young man was carried by the new cult fraternity known as “Awawa boys” now unleashing terror in virtually every part of Lagos metropolis with special base in Agege area of the state and its environs.
The suspects were remanded in prison following their first appearance at the Ikeja High Court recently. It was further learnt, that operatives of the state Anti-robbery squad (SARS) have joined forces to nab fleeing members of the cult group in Lagos.
The SARS operatives had last week raided parts of Oke-Odo area and arrested no fewer than 10 members of the cult gang just as they were planning to cause mayhem in the area during the candle night that would lead to the burial of the victim.
ALSO SEE: How Nigerian Navy outsmarted pirates
It was unclear if the victim was a member of a rival cult group which must have prompted the attack.
It would be recalled that operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) had arrested 15 members of the cult group during separate raid carried in Agege area of the state last week.
The raid followed series of complaints from residents over the nefarious activities of the gang terrorizing the area by robbing, raping and looting of property, living residents constantly sleeping with one eye opened.
The issues of cult activities have become a concern to the state as no fewer than 25 persons been feared killed in separate cult clashes between November 2015 and February 2016.
ALSO SEE: Nigerian Navy displayed excellent professionalism — Hijacked ship Captain
Most of the clash was recorded at Mushin, Ijora, Yaba, Agege and Obalende area of the state. Recently a member of the National union of Road Transport Worker (NURTW) was arrested for his involvement in the murder of a young man.
The Lagos State Commissioner of Police (CP) Fatai Owoseni on assumption of office in the state had warned against any form of cult activities or other criminalities in the state. He had on several occasions charged his men to comb all black spots across the state and rid it of criminal gangs.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment