Share this on WhatsApp



Nosa Eresoyen, Asaba
The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Delta State Chapter, at the State Executive Council meeting, Saturday, in Warri, approved the move by the Labour Party (LP), Accord Party (AP), other political groups and individuals to join the APC to form a more formidable opposition in Delta.
At a meeting presided over by Mr. O’tega Emerhor, the party governorship candidate in the last election, he briefed the SEC of his meeting with Chief Great Ogboru of LP, and Mr. Victor Ochei of AP, and the decision reached on the need to for a stronger opposition in the Delta state ahead of 2019.
After deliberation, the SEC unanimously voted and approved the plan by the leaders and members of Labour Party and Accord Party in Delta state to come into APC in order for the progressives to be united in one party in the state.
SEC thereafter set up and inaugurated a 9man welcome committee headed by Mr. Fred Onokor Okpohworo, to interface with the leadership of all the political parties, groups and individuals willing to join the APC in Delta State and work out all modalities for a successful ground reception.
ALSO SEE: Delta insists on new criminal justice reforms
Mr. Emerhor charged the party faithful to be more committed to the change agenda of the APC and woo more members because the party’s door is open to receiving new members, in order to reposition the party in Delta state, nothing that politics is a game of number.
Frank Ovie Kokori, a BOT member; while addressing the SEC members, enjoined APC leaders and members across the state to be more united, adding that the strength of any political party lies in her unity.
Other notable leaders of the party at the meeting includes, the state chairman, Prophet Jones Eruhe, Sir Olisaemeka Akamukale, the Deputy Governorship candidate, Chief VOT Abanum, Frank Kokori, Deputy State Chairman, Dr Cyril Ogodo, Pastor Power Ziadeke Aghinighan, and Solomon Edeoja among others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment