Share this on WhatsApp



A participant at the just concluded 2016 Offshore West Africa Conference in Lagos and Managing Director of PennWell International, Mr. Glenn Ensor has said that oil and gas companies should increase their level of transparency in their business operations as part of the strategies to survive the slump in the price of crude oil.
Ensor suggested that in addition to doing business in a transparent manner, the companies should also control their cost in order to make profit and survive the current industry crisis. He admitted that cost control for International oil companies in Nigeria is going to be a technical and strategic challenge.
“For developing fields, the watch word is cost control. Companies need to bring down the price of oil at which they can obtain profit and survive. That is going to be a technical and strategic challenge for the industry,” Ensor said.
ALSO SEE: Shell halts investment in Nigeria, sacks 10,000
Also speaking on the success of Offshore West Africa, OWA 2016, PennWell Managing Director said “We are extremely pleased that Offshore West Africa 2016 has been so wonderfully received here in Lagos, and this has been a great way to celebrate 20 years of the event, with a record attendance once again”.
“Continuing the successes of the 2015 event in somewhat turbulent times for the industry within Nigeria is something that we thank all participants, including delegates, visitors, sponsors, exhibitors, and speakers for, in helping us achieve this,” he said.
The three-day Exhibition as part of Offshore West Africa comprises of both prominent local and international organisations, displaying their latest products, services, technologies and industry innovations.
For the second year in a row, Offshore West Africa included a continuous professional development (CPD) programme, supported by the Energy Institute Nigeria.
ALSO SEE: Pipeline attack: Ijaw group hails JTF over arrest, says Tompolo is vindicated
This Initiative is part of PennWell Corporation’s and Offshore West Africa’s ongoing Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy to help with the West African region’s objective of developing a fully sustainable sector.
Commenting on America’s Shale gas, Ensor said it had become remarkably resilient and flexible by bringing down their cost structures to stay in the market.
He said the America Shale gas style to remain resilient and flexible ‎in the market started with Saudi Arabia.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment