Coach Bello Rahman (Babaray) knows a thing or two about serendipity. He tells Esther Egbe about talent discovery and other issues in football.
HOW long have you been coaching?
I have been coaching since 1997, but I got my first coaching certificate in 1999 at the National Institute for Sports.
Why did you go into coaching job?
I went into coaching because I felt a lot of boys in my neighborhood were playing football without direction and I was convinced I have what it takes to guide them.
Did you ever play the round leather game?
Yes, I did . Albeit not professionally.
Why did you stop playing football?
I was pursuing Academy.
Who are your outstanding players?
Rasak Omotoyossi, Alabi Rasheed, Akeem Agbetu, Slyvester Igbonu, Izunna Uzochukwu, Rabiu Ibrahim,Jude Nworuh, Ramon Azeez,Ganiu Ogungbe, Lanre Runsewe, Kingsley Udoh, Azeez Shobola, Alimi Jamiu, Femi Ajilore, Ifeanyi Emeghara, Olumide Adaramola, Adio Yusuf, Babatunde Solomon.
How is Sylvester Igbonu to you?
Sly is like a son to me. His own discovery was like a fairy tale.
How did you discover him?
I went to play football in my neighborhood in 2005, in my days with Fc Ebedei because I couldn’t travel for the league match away to Ebony Angels then in the Pro League. My wife just put to bed and the following day was the naming. There was an impending fight on the field and behold Sly was involved .People started murmuring how such a good player he was. but rather than go to play football he prefers to engaged in fights. I took the courage to call and speak with him and he listened to me and agreed to follow me to camp in Sagamu. He was such a young skinny boy back then and together with my boss Churchhill Oliseh,we did our best and he was lucky to be picked when our sister team in Denmark,FC Midtjyulland came the following year in 2006.He spent nine seasons with FC Midtjyulland before moving to the Russia league with USA FC. One thing about him though is that he was a fighter on the field; he never gives up, and he’s highly versatile.
How has it been so far ?
After working here and there, for over a decade, notable of which were Gateway Football Club and my two stints at FC Ebedei, I decided to work for myself by starting an Academy with some other friends who share my passion for promoting young footballers.
I am the President of Prodigy Football Academy, with the likes of Fatai Akande, our technical director, Gafar Mohammed, our public relations man, Ezekiel Balogun and Lumumba Okugbawa.We have quite a number of fledging talents in our fold at the moment, players we hope to see to the top.
What is it about the game between Sly and his friends?
Sly and Izunna are very close buddies and they felt they could show love to their teeming fans in the neighborhood by celebrating their respective movement to Russia with a game. Izunna is with Amker Perm in Russia and is also a Nigerian international. It was both of them that put the game together. Izunna Uzochukwu is the younger brother of Ugonna Uzochukwu, who plays for Chippa United in South Africa. Sly has another game for December to January.
What popular coach have you worked with?
Gbenga Ogungbe at gateway football club, He is the present coach
What is your plan for this year?
Sticking with the Academy and embarking on a youth project targeted at producing players for the different age cadres of the national teams Under 17 and under 20. I will also work as stadium manager with the Lagos state government Between 2013- 2015.

			
			Post Views: 
			216