Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
In furtherance of the poise of the Lagos State Governor Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode to illuminate the nooks and crannies of the State through the Light up Lagos Initiatives, thirty-two communities in the Badagry Division of the State are set for reconnection to the National Grid.
The Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources, Mr. Wale Oluwo made this disclosure at a press briefing to unveil the Light up Lagos components at the State Electricity Board Office In Ikeja.
Olowu stressed that the initiative as conceived by the Governor was not all about street lights alone but consist of about seven major components to make electricity available to Lagos homes and businesses.
According to him, the Light Up Lagos components includes the Power Advisory committee made up of Chief Executives of major stakeholders in the power sectors that will  be brainstorming to drive the project; Public street lightening; provision of independent power plants to provide sources of power to public lightening and government institutions; renewable energy  development; energy conservation and advocacy and Adopt a Street Light initiatives.
ALSO SEE: Dysfunctional Renal Centre: Lagos Assembly rise to rescue
“The goal of the scheme as conceptualized by the Governor is to make electricity available to all Lagosians at all times,the current system of administering street lightening in the State which is totally disjointed will be reorganized to bring all the streets lights across the State under one basket for ease of administration, control and maintenance”.
On the independent Power Plant, another major component of the Light Up Lagos Project, the Commissioner revealed that the State is Considering two additional power plants to boast power supplies to public institutions, like street lights, health facilities, public Schools and water corporations amongst others.
He added that the State Government and the Light up Lagos Advisory Committee is considering the establishment of the Lagos State Electricity Grid  which will be dedicated solely to the supply of electricity to Lagos.
On the ‘’Adopt a Street’’ Initiative, another Component of the Light up Lagos Project, the Commissioner called on all well-meaning individuals and corporate organization to key into the Light Up Lagos programme by connecting street lights in their neighborhoods to their power sources as part of their Corporate social responsibility. He said in return, the State Government will recognize individuals and corporate bodies with letter of commendation and a rebate on their Land Use Charge.
ALSO SEE: Lagos bars staff, visitors without ID from secretariat complex
He thanked the UK/DFID for their support to the State Government in deploying solar powers to schools in the rural areas and training of personnel on the management and maintenance of the solar powers.
Mr. Oluwo further said that as part of the electrification intervention programme, which is a major component of the light up Lagos Initiative, the connection of 67 communities in the Epe Division of the State is currently ongoing while the reconnection of 32 communities in the Apa, Owode, Seme Border area of Badagry which had been cut off from the national grid for the past sixteen years is in top gear.
Conducting the press round the Apa, Owode, Seme Border Communities, the Commissioner said the State Government is poised to make life easy for all Lagosians hence the need to reconnect the thirty two communities back to the national grid to enhance their economic, social life and security.
The Commissioner called on the communities where the State Government is providing Electrification intervention programme to take ownership of the programme  by safeguarding public amenities against theft and vandals.
Receiving the Commissioner and his entourage at the Apa Area of Badagry, the Executive Secretary of the Badary East Local Council Development Area, Prince Joseph Agoro and the representative of the Alapa of Apa thanked the State Government for the intervention programme. They promised maximum support and cooperation with the State Government in completing the programme on record time.
Also the Custom Controller of the Seme Border Post, Mr. Dimka Vincent,  while adding his voice and support to the programme said it is a welcome development which will reduce the level of crime such as smuggling under the cover of the dark as well as improving the social economic life of the communities.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment