Share this on WhatsApp



STALLION NMN, the Nissan brand custodian has announced the inclusion of Infiniti brand among the dealership product range thus becoming the first local Japanese automobile brand custodian to officially get the nod to market and distribute the luxury sibling of a prime Japanese automaker.
The Infiniti brand which was officially introduced in North America in 1989 is the luxury vehicle division of Japanese automaker Nissan with direct equivalents in the Nissan product line-up.
More than 200, 000 Infiniti vehicles were sold worldwide last year with America’s 133,500 vehicles toping the sales chart followed by China’s 40,000, Canada 11, 300 and Europe’s 7,000 including unavailable sales data in the Middle East.
Stallion NMN who became Nissan brand custodian in May 2013 has already taken delivery of three Infiniti variants including the Q50 (sedan), QX70 and QX80 SUVs respectively and are all available in Stallion NMN accredited Nissan showrooms countrywide.
ALSO SEE: Anything like a perfect Car? Here’s what OLX found out!
Addressing the media at the product launch, Managing Director, Stallion NMN, Parvir Singh said “The introduction of Infiniti, Nissan luxury brand to Nigeria is a proof of our commitment to set fresh standards in the local automobile industry.”
He said Nissan is undoubtedly a painstakingly engineered brand with vast range of models, cutting across various applications, saying this versatility has placed Nissan well ahead of competition which is currently ranked sixth largest automaker in the world.
Stallion NMN, he added hopes to replicate this success in Nigeria by making Nissan one of Nigeria most preferred brands.
Also adding that Nissan has transcended the challenges of yesterday and living up to its tagline ‘Innovation that Excites’, Mr. Singh said: “Our obligation is to make ownership of Nissan product range an exciting experience as we recognise the significance of excellence both in the quality of Nissan vehicles and in after sales service.”
He said Stallion NMN has trained and is continuing to retrain all her service technicians in multiple auto repair disciplines and will continue to acquaint them extensively in Nissan’s constantly advancing and cutting edge technology.
Also in his product presentation, Stallion NMN Head of Marketing and Sales, Amit Sharma described Infiniti as an award winning brand and a meticulously engineered brand with excellent fuel efficiency and output to deliver exceptional feelings and superb response as you drive.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment