A group of concerned Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, stakeholders and elders has called on the new National Chairman of the party, Ali Modu-Sheriff, to resign.
The group, under the aegis of PDP Rescue Group led by Wilberforce Juta, who also contested for PDP chairmanship, made the call during a news conference on Sunday in Abuja, said that the party leaders were upset about Modu-Sheriff’s appointment as PDP national chairman.
He said “most PDP members did not see in Sheriff a model of impeccable integrity that the party badly needed to lead it at this critical moment.
“We are upset by the decision of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party in appointing Ali Modu-Sheriff as national chairman.
ALSO SEE: Fani-Kayode condemns Fayose, Mimiko, for imposing Sheriff as PDP chairman
“We are convinced that this decision is against the will and wish of the generality of members. We know for a fact the North-East Zonal wing, having been directed by the National Caucus of the party to forward nominees from the zone, did not nominate Modu-Sheriff for the position of national chairman.
“Consequently, Modu-Sheriff should do the needful by stepping down honourably as it is evident that party members nationwide have overwhelmingly rejected him.”
He said that the current leadership crisis in PDP was a challenge to every Nigerian and emphasised that “having the PDP destroyed by acts of error of judgment as being witnessed now is denying Nigeria of a strong opposition party that is badly needed if Nigeria’s democracy is to be strengthened and all tendencies toward civilian dictatorship checked.
“The crisis must challenge all party members to action to halt the party from further drift. The plan of PDP Rescue Group is to mobilise party members and leaders to help attain this noble goal.
“It is, therefore, critical if the PDP must come back to national reckoning, that we remodel its leadership on the platform of honesty as required by the party manifesto.”
He then urged all party organs to rise to the challenge by insisting on the removal of Modu-Sheriff, while he also urged the different organs, as well as past and present leaders to commence the search for persons with high integrity, strategic insight and fear of God Almighty to lead the party.
“It is our considered view that we endeavour to elect only those with discernible traits,” he said.
ALSO SEE: Okupe downgrades Sheriff, mocks PDP over chairmanship appointment
He called for early Congresses and National Convention of the party to elect new leaders as the term of the current leadership was due to end in March 2016.
He said “under no guise should the tenure of the current leadership of the party be extended, if we must make the needed fresh beginning.”
While answering questions, former President of the Senate, Adolphus Wabara, who is the Deputy Chairman of the group, said Modu-Sheriff’s appointment was imposed on the party, the same views expressed by a former Deputy Governor of Sokoto Sate and Secretary of the group, Mukhtari Shagari, who also called on Modu-Sheriff to resign.

			
			PV: 
			0