Share this on WhatsApp



By Isaac Tersoo Agber
A pregnant woman on board an Arik Air flight from Port Harcourt to Lagos has reportedly died on board 11am flight.
This development is coming barely three days after a middle-aged female passenger that was to travel to Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on an Etihad Airline flight died inside a toilet at the international wing of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos.
The woman simply identified as Ijeoma Okefi,39 years old, National Daily learnt, was flying on board Arik Air flight from Port Harcourt to Lagos when the woman allegedly developed complications.
The pregnant woman was said to have been attended to by on board medical personnel who were also passengers on that flight.
ALSO SEE: Arik Air begins flights to Libreville
The deceased was accompanied by her husband and cousin was on referral to the University College Teaching Hospital (UCTH).
As at the time of compiling the report, the remains of the deceased has been taken to undisclosed mortuary
The Public Relations and Communications Manager, Arik Air,Mr Adebanji Ola, confirmed the development in an online statement made available to aviation correspondents.
He explained that she was confirmed died this morning by medical personnel at Lagos Airport.
According to him, “A female passenger on board Arik Air’s Port Harcourt-Lagos flight was confirmed dead on arrival this morning by medical personnel at the Murtala Muhammed Airport Domestic Terminal 1, Ikeja, Lagos.”
He continued, “The lady boarded the flight from Port Harcourt in company of her husband and cousin. The cause of death is yet to be ascertained.”
ALSO SEE: Arik Air female staff missing after visit to boyfriend
It would be recalled that a middle aged passenger died aboard an Arik Air flight from Owerri to Lagos on December 2, 2015.
The man, who was said to have boarded the flight from Owerri, was confirmed dead at the Lagos airport when his body was brought down from the aircraft when he failed to disembark with other passengers, who were on board.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment