By OKOSUN DENNIS
The State Security Service on Tuesday announced the arrest of one Abdussalam Enesi Yunusa alleged to be a recruiter for the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).
The SSS in a statement by Tony Okpuiyo, said Mr. Yunusa was arrested in Kano on January 17 after he “completed arrangements to embark on a journey to join an ISIS terrorist training camp in Libya, with other Nigerians whom he recruited for the ISIS.”
Part of his statement read in part:v“On January 17, 2016, one Abdussalam Enesi
Yunusa, a recruiter for the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) was arrested in Kano.
“His arrest was sequel to available intelligence which indicated his terrorist antecedents and covert drive to indoctrinate and recruit susceptible youths in the country.
“Prior to his arrest, Yunusa had completed arrangements to embark on a journey to join
an ISIS terrorist training camp in Libya, with other Nigerians whom he recruited for the
‘Islamic State’.
“These recruits include the trio of one Muhammed Rabi’u, Yahaya Momoh Jimon and Zainab Sunday (a female).
It was learnt that Yunusa, until his arrest was a 400 level undergraduate student of the
Federal University of Technology, Minna, Niger State, where he was studying for a degree in Information and Media Technology.
He was subsequently radicalized and became a member of an extremist cell, comprising of
one Ibrahim and Abubakar Ligali, whom he revealed are currently undergoing terrorist training in Libya.
ALSO SEE: Gambian President’s $10,000 gift tears Nigerian Army apart
He was said to have listed one Aminu (fnu) and Ibrahim Jihadi (Nigeriene), as other ISIS
agents operating in Nigeria and the West African sub-region. The cell was being funded
by one Abu-sa’ad Al Sudani, a media expert with the extremist group using Western Union
money transfers to fund the terrorist cell agenda.
It was also revealed that on January 17, 2016, in Daura township of Daura LGA, Katsina state, another budding extremist cell affiliated to ISIS, was intercepted by the service. One Ibrahim Mohammed Daura, Zaharadeen Salisu and five other elements of the proscribed extremist group, Ansaru, were arrested by the Service.
This group was discovered in an active stage, as its members were already co-ordinating themselves for attacks in Katsina and Kano States.
In the same vein, on January 22, 2016, one Obansa Salami, Ejide Tijani aka Abu Uwaise II, Mohammed Rabiu aka Ubida II, Zainab Mohammed and Abdulqadir Salisu Ahmad
were arrested in Kano by this service, while migrating to Libya, with their immediate families including infants, in a bid to join ISIS.
This group was apprehended after painstaking monitoring of its network and plans.
On 29th January, 2016, the Service arrested Mohammed Aliyu Ndako in Kwara state.
Ndako (17) was learnt is an undergraduate student of a tertiary institution in the State. He was arrested sequel to credible intelligence on his plans with one Abdulkadir Salisu Ahmad a.k.a Daddy Tall, another student in Kano State, to carry out coordinated lone-wolf attacks on selected populated targets in Nigeria preferably worship centres or recreation venues.
Suspect had hitherto been communicating with foreign extremist elements, while
sourcing online terrorist training and support.
Within the window of these tactical operations, between the month of December 2015 and February 2016, the Service, busted the network of syndicated kidnap gangs
spanning different regions in the country, especially Kebbi, Zamfara, Niger, Nasarawa,
FCT, Oyo and Osun states.
Foremost in this line, was the arrest of a gang of five (5) kidnappers, Abubakar Hassan, Usman Musa, Usman Adamu and Idrisa Babangida Ahmadu at Ife junction, Osun state, on February 3, 2016.
On February 5, 2016, the fifth member of the gang, Saidu Isyaku was arrested at Ojo area, Oyo state. These kidnappers, Six (6) AK 47 rifles, five (5) magazines and about one
thousand rounds of ammunition were recovered.
This gang has been active in the South West axis of the country and were at advanced stages of kidnapping high value targets for huge ransom, before they were
intercepted.
Another breakthrough in the fight against kidnapping was the killing of Abubakar Mohammed (aka BUBA), and an unidentified member of his group, on 8th February, 2016 close to Jebba Medical Centre, Jebba, Kwara State by security operatives as they tried to escape during a shootout with security operatives.
Mohammed was a notorious kidnap kingpin known for his brutality and various acts of lawlessness. It is disheartening that this criminal and his men had terrorized, to no end, residents of the South West zone. He was also linked to the kidnap of the elder statesman, Chief Olu Falae, in Ondo state.”
Recently, Ahmad al-Assir, who had been in hiding for two years, was seized at Rafik Hariri International Airport in Beirut trying to board a plane to Nigeria. Al-Assir is also believed to have ties with the Islamic State group. He was locally tagged the “emir” of the ISIS branch in Lebanon.

			
			Post Views: 
			132