Share this on WhatsApp
By Chioma Obinagwam
As more winners continue to emerge every day in the Astymin Get Alert Promo, ceaseless accolades have begun to trail the Astymin brand from many Nigerians, including winners who emerged and are being rewarded by the brand.
The promo which commenced on the 1st of February to reward Nigerians for their loyalty and support, as part of the celebration of its fifteen years of existence in the country, has seen many Nigerians smiling to the bank courtesy of the promo.
Many of the winners believe that Astymin is not only delivering positively on their health and well-being through its essential amino-acid and multivitamins, it is also putting smiles on their faces by subtly touching their lives where it matters.
One of the lucky winners, Inuolaji Bukola Ajara shared her experience on the Astymin Get Alert Promo and how she intends to improve her business with her prize reward. She said she has been using Astymin with her family after trying it the first time, following doctor’s recommendation. Since then, Astymin had been their regular daily multivitamin for her entire household.
 Apparently excited by the reward, another winner, Pastor Mrs Esther Fekumo from Igbalu area of Ikorodu, Lagos said she got to know about Astymin over a year ago. 
According to her, the brand has consistently delivered on its promise of quality amino acid-enriched multivitamin that boosts the body immune system and enhances general well-being for her family.
“I tried it, it is very good. It kept my body very fine. My daughter also took this same Astymin sometimes ago and it boosted all the vitamins that were needed in her body. That is why we have been using it continuously in our family”, Pastor Fekumo said.
ALSO SEE: Lagos CP, expose Killers of Ademola Yusuf – CHRN
Mr Isaac Ewuba Edafe from Benin-City, who is also a winner, corroborated Bukola and Fekumo’s claims, saying that apart from the on-going Promo which is an additional reward to its customers, Astymin has remained a top-notch multivitamin for his family.
“Astymin is what I buy for my entire family because it is very good. It is totally different from other multivitamins in the market. When you start taking it, you will immediately feel the effect on your body generally. This promo is just like an additional bonus for me because I and my family are already enjoying the benefits of Astymin on our health”, he said.
The Astymin Get Alert Promo, which has been doling out N100, 000 to lucky winners every day since the commencement of the promo, is an engaging brand experience that will deliver both health and financial value to Nigerians. It is the brand’s way of rewarding consumers with total well-being for their bodies, money in their pockets and smiles on their faces.
The Astymin Get Alert promo is a year-long campaign that allows interested participants to win instant cash prizes by simply buying Astymin from any nearby pharmacy and checking the body of the bottle pack for the Astymin Get Alert seal with a scratch box. The box is scratched to reveal an entry number, which will be sent to the short code, 1393 for confirmation. Instant SMS reply will confirm the entry with further instructions. Draws will be done daily and ten winners will be selected by the system.
The prize reward will be sent to the winners either through online transfer or hand collection at the Fidson Head office. Winners’ list will be published on the ASTYMIN website’s landing page, social networks, as well as on the Punch and Guardian newspapers every month.
Share this on WhatsApp