Share this on WhatsApp



By Nosa Eresoyen, Asaba
Against the back drop of criminal justice reforms, Delta State Government on Monday insisted on the reforms, saying that it will uphold the rights of the people to speedy trials and dispensation of justice.
The State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Peter Mrakpor told journalists in Asaba after meeting with the Executive Members of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) Agbor Branch that the state government was set to domesticate the administration of criminal justice act 2015 as part of her reforms to address the current complex as slow justice administration system in the state.
The Commissioner explained that with the domestication of the act, the criminal procedural code of law in the state would be repealed, adding that urgent and compelling need to reform the administration of criminal justice as the extant criminal procedure law of the state had lost it capacity to respond quickly to the needs of the society, as well as check the raising wave of crime, and speedily bring criminals to book.
ALSO SEE: Delta Assembly wants urgent repair of Warri – Sapele Federal Road
Speaking further, the Commissioner said that all other laws in respect to the criminal justice system in the state would be review for quick commencement and conclusion of all criminal trials within a reasonable time, and in fulfillment of the constitutional right of the defendants to be trial within the reasonable time.
He said: “The reforms will not in any way create fear of the unknown because I regret a situation where some inmates have been in prison custody, awaiting trial longer than necessary due to delay trials and the slow justice delivery system” and called on legal practitioners in the state to continue to support the administration of Senator Ifeanyi Okowa.
Delta Council Suspends Four Councilors For Anti-Party Acts Nosa Eresoyen, Asaba
Authorities of Burutu Local Government Legislative Arm in Delta State, have suspended its majority leader, Godspower Timikoru and its Chief Whip, Doti Government for alleged inter-party activities and plot to remove the leadership of the House.
Also suspended, were Godspower Akiefa and Anthony Gbafade alleged to have contravened the council’s laws and regulations.
ALSO SEE: Okowa approves establishment of modular refineries in Delta
The Burutu Legislative Arm in unanimous resolution signed by 12 of its councilors, endorsed the suspension of the four councilors.
The leader of the House, Mr. Frank Adokeme who presided over the sitting, said the suspension order handed over to the four councilors were informed by their gross misconducts and anti-party activities.
Meanwhile the Burutu Legislative Arm has passed a resolution urging the council boss, Mr. Ebikeme Clark to call on the relevant agencies to check their activities of sea pirates on Burutu and Warri River Route including illegal collection of Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) by some fraudulent persons disguising as council officials.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment