By FUNSO OMODELEOLA
Counsels to a N100bn libel and defamation of character suit, filled by the National Leader of Nigeria’s ruling political party, the All Progressives Congress, (APC), Ashiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu against Daar Communications Plc owners of Africa Independent Television (AIT) have formally intimated Justice I.O Akinkugbe of the Lagos High Court of their readiness to settle the matter out of Court.
While enumerating the terms of settlement, Counsel to Daar Communication Plc, Chief Mike Ozekhome SAN; said the defendants have approached the claimant for an amicable resolution, and are prepared to tender unreserved apology over the broadcast titled “Lion of Bourdilion” to Ashiwaju Tinubu.
Chief Wole Olanipekun SAN Lead Counsel to Ashiwaju Tinubu said all parties should appreciate the magnanimity of Ashiwaju Tinubu; whose aim of approaching the Court is to clear his hard earned reputation, and not to make money on the matter.
As an elder’s statesman and a former Governor of Lagos State, he deemed it fit to let the matter go the way of conciliation. This according to the Senior Advocate of Nigeria is in line with legal global practice as applicable in all Courts of law.
The defendants Daar Communications Plc aside the unreserved apology will also retract the publication in it entirety.
Chief Ozekhome said the irrespective of the fact that the publication was a paid advertorial his client will do the needful especially as it affects the person of Ashiwaju Tinubu who is client hold in high esteem.
The “Lion of Bourdillion” documentary aired about a year ago towards the general elections; wherein various accusations of theft and corrupt practices were levied against the Ashiwaju Tinubu, the immediate past Governor of Lagos State Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola and the current Lagos State Governor Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode.
It will be recalled that despite a Court pronouncement barring the airing of the documentary at the period; Daar Communication Plc owners of Africa Independent Television (AIT) refused to heed and continued airing the documentary; a move which compelled Ashiwaju Tinubu to institute a legal action against the defendant.
 
 
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0