Share this on WhatsApp



…seeks to conform with ICAO SARPS
By Isaac Tersoo Agber
In line with its determination to bring about positive changes in the aviation industry, the Federal Government is set to review the Civil Aviation Investigation of Air Accidents and Incidents Regulations 2006, a policy that dictates operations of the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB).
The Honorable Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, together with the Minister of States for Aviation, Hadi Sirika, will lead the review at a workshop slated for Tuesday, 23rd February, 2016 at the Western Hotels, Ikeja, Lagos.
According to a statement issued by the Spokesman of AIB, Mr. Tunji Oketunbi, other industry professionals like revered aviation lawyer and immediate past President of Aviation Round Table, ART, Capt. Dele Ore and the Managing Director of Aeroconsut Limited, Engr. Babatunde Obadofin would also present papers that would usher in the new policy for accident investigation in the sector.
ALSO SEE: NAMA bows to pressure of aviation unions
Oketunbi hinted that the review of the existing 2006 policy was pertinent in order for aviation industry in Nigeria to conform to the updated International Civil Aviation Organisation, ICAO, Standards and Recommended Practices, SARPS.
He also added that the review became necessary in a bid for its policy to be in tandem with its counterparts around the world.
Oketunbi noted that since the current policy, which was promulgated in November 2006 came into operation; there had been series of amendments to accident and incident investigation by ICAO especially to the Annex 13 of the convention.
The AIB spokesman said that as one of the leading globally recognised aviation investigators, it could not operate in isolation of global standards and recommended practices.
ALSO SEE: Pregnant Woman dies aboard Arik Air flight
The statement added, “The management has noticed some gaps in the current regulations, which the new one will seek to address. We hereby requested relevant aviation stakeholders like airline operators, professionals, unions, oil companies operating within the sector, individuals with key interest in aviation Non-Governmental Organisations, NGOs, and the general public for their valuable contributions on the proposed amendment.
“We are doing this in conformity with our regulation 22, which reads in part, ‘These regulations shall be amended from time to time to bring them into conformity with the provisions of ICAO Annex 13, any amendment thereto and the Civil Aviation Act.’”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment