WITH two weeks into the celebration of 2016 World Consumer Right Day, stakeholders have expressed their willingness to use the occasion to discuss issues concerning the industry.
The Chairman, Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria (BJAN), Goddie Ofose, who made this known, last week, stated that this year’s celebration will create another platform for stakeholders in the financial segment of the Nigerian market to engage customers on the need to strengthen their relationship and explain reason behind alleged excessive charges.
According to him, among those to deliver a key note paper at the fourth Brand Journalists’ Association of Nigeria, (BJAN) Consumer Right Day Symposium is the Chairman, TPT International, Adetokunbo Modupe. Modupe is an astute communication practitioner and Public Relations guru.
ALSO SEE: CBN puts in measures to reduce stress on naira
Discussing Modupe’s paper titled, ”Banking in Nigeria: Developments and Customers Challenges”, are representatives of the United Bank for Africa (UBA), Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Consumer Protection Council (CPC), Zenith Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBank), Union Bank of Nigeria and Consumer Advocacy Foundation of Nigeria (CAFON).
The symposium will also attract major stakeholders in finance, marketing communication industry, Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG), Telecoms, aviation and others.
According to the Chairman of BJAN Goddie Ofose, the seminar is being organised as part of BJAN’s contribution to join the rest of the global community to deepen discussions on issues affecting customers and consumers with particular focus on the relationship between banks and Nigerian customers.
He said that: ”The Consumers Right Day is an annual global event designed to beam the searchlight on issues affecting consumers globally and fashion out ways to tackle it with innovative solutions.
The symposium is 4th in the series hosted by BJAN, it has become an annual gathering of stakeholders in the marketing communication industry in Nigeria to discuss way forward to tackle consumers’ plight.
This year’s event is scheduled to hold on Tuesday, march 15, 2016 at the White House Hotel, GRA, Ikeja, Lagos. As part of efforts to make the event a huge success, major brands have signed up with BJAN to be part of this great event.

			
			Post Views: 
			298