Says I was Tortured, Blindfolded

By Nosa Eresoyen, Asaba
The abducted traditional ruler, the Odiologbo of Olomoro Kingdom,
Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta State, Josiah Aghaza I who
was kidnapped last week, has been released after three days ordeal in
the hands of his kidnappers.
The abductors had allegedly demanded a ransom of N50 million as a
condition for the monarch’s released.
While narrating his ordeals to newsmen at his residence in Ikiagbodo
in the kingdom on Tuesday, the monarch who confirmed the earlier
report on the incident said, he arrived the community at about 11pm on
Monday.
C’River retirees barricade governor’s office, demand release of five years gratuity
According to him, I was kept in the boot of a car after the first one
was abandoned and driven to an unknown destination, adding that from
the kidnappers, discussion, he presumed that the was kept in a thick
forest around Abraka axis.
“I heard calls from Olomoro as we were going that the people were
facing Ughelli. It was the Olomoro vigilante that called the Ughelli
vigilante to intercept them before we later entered a windy road.”
The traditional ruler said he was blindfolded, tortured with cutlasses
and guns and his mouth gagged, added that he was without food for two
days until the third when he was fed with four slice of bread and
water.
Decision to scrap Maritime Varsity waste of public funds – Okowa
The monarch who could not ascertain how much was paid to affect his
release, expressed appreciation to God, the Government, people of the
community and others for their prayers and effort towards his release.
Also speaking, the palace secretary, Mr. Fidelis Usie called on the
state government to beef up security in the state and the community in
particular.
Resident of the community told our correspondent that his return
threw the entire kingdom into wide jubilation.
Meanwhile the Delta State Police Command officially confirmed the
rescue of the abducted of Olomoro monarch HRM Omosioni Aghaza.
EFCC extends searchlight to former VP Sambo
The Police Public Relations Officer, Celestina Kalu, who confirmed the
rescue, said the royal father was rescued from a bush in Sapele.
She said a combined team of policemen and local vigilante members
found the victim in the bush after he was abandoned by the suspects,
who noticed that security officers were closing in on them.
The Police image maker said the victim has since re-united with his
family and subjects.
El- Rufai partners Sahara group, SDGs on agric development
Meanwhile, Kalu said though no arrest has been made, the police have
swung into action in search of the fleeing kidnappers; adding that
their days were numbered as the police will do everything to unmask
and arrest them soon.
Asked whether ransom was paid, the police image maker said “as far as
the police is concerned, we will never be part of ransom negotiation
with kidnappers, but will always do our best to rescue any kidnapped
victim as we have done”.

			
			Post Views: 
			78