By SADIQ SHAMSU ABUBAKAR, Kano
GOVERNOR Abdulahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has commended the Automobile Dealers Association in Kano State for their commitment to alleviating the plights of Internally Displaces Persons (IDPs) in the state. The governor lauded members of the association on their donation of food items and learning materials worth hundreds of thousands of Naira to IDP Children School at Mariri in Kumbotso Local Government AreAa where the governor received the items on behalf of the children.
The Governor, who was impressed with the level of support the association has been giving out, thanked the members for their noble gestures; assuring them that his administration will continue to partner with them for the socio-economic growth of the state.
Ganduje enjoined other associations, religious groups and philanthropists to follow the good example so that the trauma the children went through is brought to bear.
The association has also been raising the hope of the poor, orphanage homes, disable camps, Prison inmates, not only in Kano State but extended same to many other states in the north.
Chairman of the Automobile Dealers Association, Ambassador Gashas, said that from the levies paid by the members, they are able to purchase quantities of food items, clothes, teaching and learning materials, as well as other useful materials for distribution to support government’s efforts.
Ambassador Gashas also revealed that he has thrown challenges to about 321 of his friends to pay a friendly visit to all the primary schools they attended and cast their minds back on how they got educational foundation to become who they are today.
He said that the trail of what life was then and now, will make them come to the aid of such schools, and by so doing, most of the schools will enjoy renovations for better atmosphere and conducive learning environment.
He said he is going to set the ball rolling by starting the philanthropic move by renovating the Primary school he attended soon. the exercise according to him will continue as many may wish to emulate him and that could be step one in the state educational transformation drum beat.
Furthermore, he lamented that the education sector lacks the support of many billionaires from Kano, arguing that, the effort of raising education to higher standard in Kano is resting heavily on the shoulders of government which quite wrong. “The only way we record progress is to join hands and render the maximum support to government,” Gashas said, noting that “otherwise the sector will remain a tale.”
Ambassador Gashas is of the view that, the recent Educational Foundation inaugurated can only perform better if the leaders can come out to practically demonstrate some of the aims and objectives of foundation for others to follow.