Share this on WhatsApp



By Nosa Eresoyen, Asaba
The Niger Delta Ingenious Movement for Radical Change (NDIMRC) has urged the Federal Government to ignore the call by some stakeholders in the Nigeria Oil and Gas industry to cancel the 260m dollars contract for the ExxonMobil’s Usan Field.
Some stakeholders, under the aegis of Nigeria Content Front (NCF), had Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Emmanuel Kachikwu, to cancel the 260m dollars contract award for the ExxonMobil’s Usan Field.
But NDIMRC in a swift reaction, implored Dr. Kachikwu to ignore the “hired stakeholders” seeking the cancellation/suspension of the multibillion naira deal.
In a press statement signed by its President, Nelly Emma, Secretary, John Sailor and public Relations Officer, Stanley Mukoro, a copy made available to our correspondent, the group restarted that the contract for the ExxonMobil’s Usan Field following due process and reaffirm it earlier clean bill of health on the National Petroleum Investment Management Service (NAPIMS), a subsidiary of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC).
ALSO SEE: Kachikwu, the man who shoulders Nigeria’s oil burden
According to the group; we want to restate that those seeking for the cancellation of the contract duly awarded; and threatening to drag NAPIMS before the Economic Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) are being economical with the truth. This Multi billion naira deal was managed by Total Upstream Nigeria Limited (TUPNI) for two years before it was taken over by ExxonMobil’s and it is not true that NAPIMS allegedly approved the contact illegally”.
The group also said that; The NNPC has cleared the air on this issue in a recent advertorial in one of the national dialers and we have expected that those still rooting for the cancellation of the contract would have allowed sleeping dogs to lie”.
The statement by NDIMRS added that; The records for the NNPC concerning the contract for the provision of 01MR Vessel and WROV service for Usan operation-proposed termination of contract by ESSO are straight enough and it is our humble appeal to the federal government to ignore the hired stakeholders, who are out to mislead the public by calling for the cancellation of the contract as the NNPC has set the records straight on the issue.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment