Share this on WhatsApp



AS the newest member of the Range Rover family, the new Range Rover Evoque convertible, expected to go on sale from mid-2016 is a highly desirable model.
It combines traditional Range Rover luxury with an elegant four-seat convertible design and versatile storage while simultaneously meeting the rigorous standards set by the Land Rover brand- an unrivalled breadth of capability both on- and off-road.
The eye-catching exterior design of the Range Rover Evoque Convertible is made possible by a sophisticated fabric roof shaped to create a defined silhouette that remains faithful to the vehicle’s original award-winning design. Its Z-fold mechanism lays flush with the rear bodywork for a sleek, uncluttered appearance when lowered.
The fully-automated roof stows in 18 seconds, and can be raised in 21 seconds, at speeds up to 30mph3. When closed, it provides high standards of refinement with a layer of acoustic insulation ensuring interior comfort on par with the five-door Range Rover Evoque. The 8.9-cu. ft. (251-liter) luggage space offers added practicality.
At the heart of the cabin is an all-new, 10.2-inch touch-screen featuring the next generation Jaguar Land Rover InControl® Touch Pro™ infotainment system. Making its debut for the Land Rover brand on the Range Rover Evoque Convertible, InControl Touch Pro offers seamless smartphone integration and is available with door-to-door navigation, Wi-Fi connectivity and a premium sound system2.
ALSO SEE: Ford expands Focus range with new engine series
Providing additional driver protection, a roll-over protection system is hidden within the rear bodywork. In the event of a roll-over situation, the system is designed to deploy two aluminum bars within 90 milliseconds to create a potential protection space for occupants.
The Range Rover Evoque Convertible is underpinned by the all-terrain capability expected of all Land Rover vehicles and uses the same advanced technologies as the Range Rover Evoque five-door and coupe derivatives. The standard all-wheel drive system works with the vehicle’s 240-hp turbocharged four-cylinder engine, nine-speed automatic transmission and Terrain Response® system to ensure the Range Rover Evoque Convertible retains its capability in a variety of conditions, on- and off-road, in all seasons.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment