Share this on WhatsApp



• Sensitizes stakeholders on bird flu
THE Federal Minister of Agriculture and Rural development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, has recently disclosed in a meeting with the Survey-General of the Federation, Surv Ebisintei Awudu, that it has resolved to collaborate with the Surveyor-General’s office in mapping out areas for its proposed Grass growing programme in its efforts to resolve the incessant crises between farmers and cattle breeders.
Ogbeh who explained that because of the problem associated with reviving the old grazing reserves, it has become very imperative for lands to be mapped out for the growing of grass for wandering cattle, adding that grasses would be grown all over the country, while abattoirs would be built so that Nigeria would have enough grass to feed the cattle as well as produce enough milk and meat to feed the growing population.
The Minister reiterated that If Israel could grow grass in the desert, Nigeria can do it, stating that time has come for Nigeria to start thinking and planning on how to feed her population that is projected to reach 500 million by the year 2050.
The FMARD boss said research has shown that Nigeria ‘s grasses are very rich , basing his judgment on the grasses taken from Nigeria to Brazil 16 years ago and solicited the support of State Governors in making the programme achievable by providing 5000 hectares of land each for the programme.
Ogbeh who thanked the Kano State Governor for providing five sites for the grass growing programme also solicited the support of the office of the Surveyor- General in locating areas where the programme could be located with zero conflicts.
The Surveyor-General of the Federation, Surv Ebisintei Awudu, in his response said his office has the mandate to carry out mapping of the entire Nigerian landscape and promised to get all the data concerning the existing grazing sites and routes to enable them know where the programme could be sited.
Awudu stated the need for synergy between his office and the Ministry as he pledged the readiness of his office in ensuring that the vision of President Buhari in boosting food sufficiency is realized, however pleaded with the ministry for equipment support, saying lack of funding has been the bane of their office in achieving its mandate.
In the same vein, the Ministry is in collaboration with Animal Health Department of the FCT Agriculture Secretariat to commence series of sensitization meetings in the FCT Area Councils to educate poultry farmers and sellers on bio-security measures for the containment and control of Bird flu in the Territory in view of the recent outbreak of the disease in three farms in the FCT.
The Chief Veterinary Officer(CVO) of the Federation and Director, Veterinary Services Department, FMARD, Dr.(Mrs.) Egejuru Eze, addressing poultry farmers and sellers at Kuje and Gwagwalada Area Councils recently, stated the need for bio- security measures to be taken by the farmers to prevent further spread of the disease.
Eze warned the farmers of the dangers of concealing information on the health status of their poultry farms so as to save the poultry industry from total ruin. She advised the farmers to adhere strictly to the bio-security measures as contained in the Information, Education and Communication (IEC) materials distributed to them.
She encouraged the farmers to register their farms with government veterinary Department and Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN), stating that the Director, Veterinary Services had been empowered to seal any poultry farm that was not registered.
The Head of Animal Health Services, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Dr. Regina Adulugba, sympathizing with the affected farmers in the FCT and solicited for their cooperation, saying the poultry industry must not be allowed to die, stating that for medical doctors to be able to fight Ebola; Veterinary doctors should be able to curtail and contain Bird Flu.
FMARD experts from the Veterinary Department, Dr. Gidado Muhammad and Dr, Columba Teru Vakuru, advised poultry famers and the attendees to take bio-security measures very seriously to prevent the disease from spreading further and affecting humans, aside also highlighting on preventive measures which entails separating poultry from other animals, buying of live birds from reputable dealers and cleaning and disinfecting equipment regularly.
The experts equally directed poultry farmers to report any suspected cases of Avian Influenza to the nearest government veterinary office, saying bio-security is the key to the prevention of the spread of bird flu, letting them that it is against government position to vaccinate poultry against Avian influenza. However, the ministry distributed IEC materials and pictorials on bio-security measures to the poultry farmers and sellers.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment