By LANRE ADESANYA
THE Lagos State Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) have urged the Lagos State House of Assembly to collaborate with the Federal Government to curb multiple taxation and traffic congestion for more economic development.
Chief Nike Akande, the President of LCCI made the appeal during a courtesy call on the Speaker of the House, Mr Mudashiru Obasa at the Assembly. Akande said, “Lagos, being the home for all, and commercial capital of Nigeria, cannot but show the lead by tackling the menace of multiplicity of taxes.
Akande, who was a two-term Nigerian minister urged the Assembly to address the issue of late invitation to the state Chambers of Commerce for the House public hearing.”An investment friendly legislation and oversight is critical for good governance and the progress of the Lagos economy,” he said.
“We believe that this is the time for Lagos State to work with the Federal Government to address the factors that are stifling the investment climate in the State, especially in respect of development of infrastructures,” she said.
Akande commended the relationship between the legislature and executive arms in the state, saying that such cordiality was responsible for the stability of democracy in the state.
According to him, LCCI has recorded landmark achievements in the state and the organisation is ready to collaborate with the state Assembly to assist business environment.
ALSO SEE: We must develop non-oil sector through enabling environment — LCCI boss
“I also wish to express my profound gratitude for the co-operation the business community has been receiving from the Lagos State House of Assembly in the past. The LCCI is reputed for public policy advocacy and will not relent in its efforts to continue to press for an improvement in the business environment,” Akande said.
Responding, the Speaker promised that the state Assembly is poised to sustain the existing cordial relationship between the executive.”As you rightly observed, we have passed re-ordering and the 2016 budgets, very ambitious with intention to expand our infrastructures. We are ready to collaborate with any institution that will assist in improving the economy of the state, we realize the challenges facing our country today, Lagos cannot be isolated from it.”
Obasa also assured the LCCI that the House would henceforth give considerable time for invitation to public hearing that will be extended to the organisation.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			132