Share this on WhatsApp



THE stylish Ford Focus range has been made more appealing with the introduction of four new derivatives all of which feature the sophisticated PowerShift six-speed dual clutch automatic transmission paired with the 1.0 EcoBoost engine for the first time.
It is equipped with Ford’s latest fuel-saving technologies including Auto-Start-Stop and the Active Grille Shutter to achieve significant reductions in CO2 emissions. In addition, Ford’s Smart Regenerative Charging system selectively engages the alternator and charges the battery when the vehicle is coasting and braking to recapture energy that would otherwise be lost.
The 1.0 EcoBoost delivers 92kW of power and 170Nm of torque. Matched to the PowerShift automatic transmission it is credited with a combined cycle fuel consumption of 5.5 l/100 km* and a CO2 emissions rating of 125 g/km*.
On the multimedia front, the Focus boasts an audio system with six speakers, a 4.2-inch screen, Ford SYNC® with Bluetooth and Voice Control, as well as two USB ports, an auxiliary input and dual 12-volt power sockets.
ALSO SEE: Stallion NMN introduces Infiniti product range in Nigeria
The safety features comprise all-disc ABS brakes with Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD) and Emergency Brake Assist (EBA), Electronic Stability Programme (ESP) with Traction Control and Hill Launch Assist. Ford’s latest second-generation MyKey system is also fitted as standard for programming selected driving and in-car entertainment features.
In Trend specification, the Focus 1.0 EcoBoost gains 16-inch dual-spoke alloy wheels, front fog lamps, cruise control with speed limiter, electric windows all round, curtain airbags and power-operated child-proof rear door locks.
The Focus is also available with the impressive 1.5 EcoBoost engine that produces maximum power of 132kW and 240Nm of torque. All 1.5 models are supplied in Trend specification, and can be purchased with either a six-speed manual transmission or the conventional six-speed automatic gearbox with SelectShift manual control.
As part of Ford Protect, all models are sold with a four-year/120 000km comprehensive warranty, four-year/80 000km service plan, three-year/unlimited km roadside assistance and five-year/unlimited km corrosion warranty. Service intervals are every 20 000km.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment