Rasheed Omokafe Richard just signed a one year deal with Naga world football club three weeks ago in Cambodia. He spoke recently with Esther Egbe about his challenges and struggle so far.
WHAT are your plans for 2016?
At the end of play this season, I pray to get connection to any Europe side.
How did you get into football?
Started playing from primary school days, representing my primary school then, Local authority, located at Cooker in Orile Iganmu.
What influenced your decision for football as a career?
It’s a sport that I love most when I was in school. So faith influenced me into making the decision.
What are your challenges so far as a footballer?
The challenges are tough, going true many pains, begging from one house to another, all in the name of football. No one believes in our talent.
ALSO SEE: How history predicts Real Madrid, Barcelona to win the 2016 Champions League
Where did you play in Nigeria before you travelled out?
I featured in some competitions like Challenge Cup, Badagry League, Oba Ojora Cup, Boska, Ojor Cup in Kwara State (Lafa league).
How were you discovered?
I met with some agents then, but in terms of money it was zero cause there was no help in that direction yet. No helper, no sponsor, so I decided to just go ahead with my journey to success.
How long have you been playing football?
Since I was 11years old.
Can you say football is making progress in Nigeria?
It’s a connection thing. For those who have the right connections and contacts they find it easy. There’s really nothing to talk about other than having the right connection. That is what counts.
Do you see any way forward in the game?
I can’t really say for now.
How long have you been playing abroad and what club?
This year will be my 3rd season, I played two season with Build Bright United. Just sign new contract with Naga world football club few weeks ago. It’s a one-year contract.
How is it like signing a new club?
I am feeling great, because the new team is of a better standard comoared to the old one. And they were the runners up in METFONE Cambodia league last season. It’s a bigger team though.
Careerwise what do you hope to achieve this year?
I will love to play for my great country.

			
			Post Views: 
			211