Share this on WhatsApp



Men of the Delta State Police Command have arrested the managing director of an oil servicing company and some police officers who allegedly assaulted staff of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) on official duty in Warri, Delta State.
The arrest of the perpetrators of the attack on FIRS officials was sequel to a formal complaint and appeal by the FIRS State Coordinator for Edo, Delta and Rivers, Hon. Joel-Onowakpo Thomas.
He had lodged a complaint at the Police Headquarters Asaba prompting the Commissioner of Police, Delta State Police Command, Baba Usman Alkali to help fish out those behind the dastardly act.
Armed with enough proof, the police swung into action and apprehended Eric Jemijereye, Managing Director, Jemtech Global Engineering Company Limited, the company Secretary and some security men attached to the company.
Jemijeraye, at the office of the Commissioner of Police apart from regretting the assault said that his company has been paying taxes but has not been filing.
‘’I am not a community leader, politician. I know it happened for a purpose. In fact I cannot explain it. I don’t create violence. I cannot encourage abduction. Please forgive us.’’
Reacting to the arrest, the FIRS State Coordinator, Joel-Onowakpo, commended the police for their prompt response which led to the arrest of those who aborted the tax monitoring work of the staff of the Service.
He specifically commended the effort of the Commissioner of Police for showing good example by not shielding those involved, particularly when his men were fingered to have been involved in the alleged assault.
Joel-Onowakpo said that the act of molestation meted out on FIRS staff could be likened to destruction of government property which the law frowns against in its entirety.
While calling on the general public to accord tax officials both at the state and federal level the respect they deserve, he warned that anyone caught harassing or attacking any officer on duty would be made to face corresponding punishment.
ALSO SEE: Rights group asks Lagos CP to expose killers of Ademola Yusuf
He warned that the Federal Inland Revenue Service under the watch of the Executive Chairman, Mr. Babatunde Fowler would not tolerate any act of lawlessness in the process of tax collection.
The Police Commissioner, Mr. Baba Usman Alkali decried the assault, saying it was an act carried out by the company on FIRS especially when they came with a flier and introduced themselves.
He said the Federal Government is taking Internally Generated Revenue, IGR, very serious and vowed that his command will do everything possible to protect tax officials as they go about their lawful duty.
He gave the management of Jemtec two weeks to resolve the matter with FIRS or alternatively commence court action on the matter while he ordered disciplinary action on policemen involved.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment