Justice Ibrahim Buba of the Federal High Court, Lagos, on Friday granted the request of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC), to seize all properties of former Niger Delta militant, Government Ekpemupolo (aka Tompolo) who has been declared wanted by the Commission.
Tompolo has been in the eye of the storm as he has refused to heed court summons to answer to fraud charges preferred against him.
At the resumed hearing, prosecuting counsel, Festus Keyamo informed the court of the warrant of arrest issued in respect of Tompolo.  He said despite the warrant of arrest and efforts of security agencies, the suspect has not been found.
ALSO SEE: ‎I’m not hiding Tompolo, says Otuaro, Delta Deputy Governor
Keyamo, then, brought an ex-parte motion to authorize the EFCC to attach and seize property belonging to Government Ekpemupolo pending his arrest or appearance before the court.
Some of his properties labelled for seizure are:  No. 1 Chief Agbamu Close, DDPA Extension, Effurun, Delta State; Mieka Dive Limited and Mieka Dive Training Institute Limited situated at No. 77, Lioth Street, ODPA Ugborikoko, Uvwie Local Government Area, Delta State;  Muhaabix Global Services Limited; a River Crew Change Boat named MUHA -15; the property known as “Tompolo Dockyard”, by the end of Enerhen Road, Effurun.
Others include the property known as “Tompolo Yard”, at the end of Chevron Clinic Road, next to Next Oil, Edjeba, Warri; the Diving School at Kurutie, at Escravos River; the property known as “Tompolo House” at Oporaza Town, opposite the Palace and any other moveable and immoveable property discovered by the EFCC, belonging to the 1st accused person.
Keyamo asked the court to separate the charge so that the matter can proceed as the 1st accused person has remained elusive.
ALSO SEE: Court appearance: Tompolo still on the run
Tompolo was billed to be arraigned by the EFCC alongside a former Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, (NIMASA), Mr. Patrick Akpobolokemi and eight others, on a 40-count charge for alleged conspiracy and diversion of over N34, 000, 000, 000 belonging to NIMASA.
While Akpobolokemi and others appeared in court, Tompolo bluntly refused to appear, forcing the court to issue a warrant for his arrest.
Justice Buba granted the request of the prosecution to separate the charge and fixed a date for the arraignment of the nine other suspects.