Share this on WhatsApp
Chief Ralph Uwazuruike has attributed the successes so far recorded by the Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), in the resuscitation of the Biafra struggle to God.

Uwazuruike, speaking on the background of the 17th anniversary ceremony of the formation of MASSOB which will come up on September 13, 2016, recalled that the movement has stood the test of time since it was formed in 1999.

In a statement issued on Monday, July 18, through the group’s spokesperson, Mazi Chris Mocha, Uwazuruike accused the Nigerian security agencies of killing agitators since the declaration of Biafra by the movement Aba, Abia state on May 23, 2000.

He said: “from May 23, 2000 to May 22, 2013, the group lost about 3,006 of its members to the murderous security agencies, even as unrecorded causality figures may be close to this number, yet the struggle has refused to die, rather it continued to wax stronger.

“They also destroyed my cars in Lagos and confiscated my three SUV jeeps, BMW motorcycle out-rider machine and a Yamaha generator, all in a bid for the former Imo state Governor, Chief Achike Udenwa to win the heart of his Abuja political masters for a second term”, Uwazuruike lamented.”

He also recalled that the group’s national headquarters at Okigwe, Imo state, was razed down on December 21, 2001.

ALSO SEE: Britain, EU referendum and Biafra agitation

He claimed several attempts were made on his life in order to abandon the struggle.

Uwazuruike said he suffered more attacks after he refused to pay the sum of N5 million police protection fee to the former Imo state director of State Security Services, (SSS) Alex Amechina (now retd), and was advised to leave the country and go on exile.

“When I refused to go on exile, there were regular invasions of my residence and MASSOB secretariat by security agencies, yet the struggle refused to die”, he stated.

Meanwhile, the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has accused Governor Rochas Okorocha of masterminding a plot of his masters in Aso Rock to halt the Biafra struggle by nailing the remaining IPOB members and other agitators.

The group on Monday, July 18, reacting to a weekend’s meeting of Ohanaeze Ndigbo held in Owerri, the Imo state capital convened by Governor Rochas Okorocha, described the meeting as a mere jamboree.

In a press statement issued in Onitsha, Anambra state, by its media and publicity secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB alleged that some faceless persons in Abuja convened the meeting to discuss their secret agenda against the Biafra struggle.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment