Share this on WhatsApp
By Lanre Adesanya
Honourable Barr. Rita Orji, member Federal House of Representatives, Ajeromi Ifelodun federal constituency has charged newly inaugurated Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) local government executives to leave up to expectations, by consolidating the success story.
Rita gave the charge at the sixth inauguration of PDP in Ajeromi Ifelodun constituency,noting that, “propaganda is no longer in vogue,the end has come to extortion from young vibrant entrants into the party by someone who sits somewhere and demand for money promising political leverage.
“We are on ground but you must know power is not a given on a platter of gold you go for it, PDP has no faction but interests,the plans on ground will give the party more political edge in Ajeromi Ifelodun, we are not interested in stories but action not propaganda”.
Hon. Tajudeen Obasa also a reps member from the federal constituency, stated that, “the local wing of the party in Ajeromi Ifelodun should commence the mobilization drive, so that by 2019 we shall continue to wax stronger and the number of members will increase in Lagos,regarding local council polls we demand a democratic election, so that the chairmen will be responsible to the people”.
Hon.Fatai Oluwa of the Lagos State House of Assembly,Ajeromi constituency I, charge the newly inaugurated to go on with the winning business as PDP chances remains bright.
Chief Kola Balogun, foremost amongst the party stalwarts present charge them to set the ground for a repeat of the electoral victory at the upcoming council polls.
“Concentrate on winning, go back to your wards and look at what is wrong there,correct and establish yourself at the grassroot, women it is time spread the news in your homes and market, it is only the saboteurs that will sink”.
The party’s state legal adviser, Barr. Muyideen Tejumade administer the oath of office on new executives, which includes the chairman Alhaja Toyin Ojora,her deputy- Ben Ibeagwa, Secretary- Kasimu Ebozogie,Financial Secretary-Mr. Wale Adebayo,Women Leader-Mrs.Nora Okeke,Treasurer-Mr. Nureni Balogun,organizing secretary Augustine Chibuike,Publicity secretary-Oliver Onyewuchi and some others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment