Pep Guardiola held his first press conference as Manchester City manager on Friday afternoon. He fielded a number of questions surrounding his new club and the future of some of his players, while he also discussed many other topics, including his rivalry with Jose Mourinho and other managers. In a very professional press conference, Guardiola played down the relationship between him and Mourinho, ensured all transfer talk was kept to a minimum and was careful not to get fans too excited about his personal arrival. EDIALE KINGSLEY monitored the twitter coverage.
ON having great managers to contend with this season at the EPL
I think it’s great top managers are here in England. Big managers take me to another level – they push me to achieve things.
On the new challenge and earning the love of the fans
Hopefully we’ll play well, win games & people will be happy with us. I have big expectations & hope things go as well as possible.
On Arteta and getting to understand the English game
Kidd is helping me get to know the players. Arteta is one of the best midfielders there’s been and he knows English football. I think it’ll be more physical. People say it’s less attractive but I don’t know. I’ll talk to Brian Kidd & Arteta to learn more.
On Jose
Jose said it well in his press conference – it’s not about me or him. What I saw from a distance is that it’s tough in England.
So what philosophy are you bringing to the league?
What I want is simple. I want to get the ball back as soon as possible. When we have the ball, to create chances. So simple. When the opponent has the ball, get it back. When we have the ball, move it quickly and create chances.
What’s your plan for Vincent Kompany, the captain?
My dream for Vincent Kompany is to be fit. In the last two years he hasn’t played many games. He’s a magnificent central defender.
ALSO SEE: Guardiola’s tears understandable – Muller
What should the club expect from you?
I will always be grateful to this club for giving me this opportunity to come to the EPL. I’ll do my best to the last day. My responsibility here is for the players. The other business is huge so I just focus on my players.
On Mascherano
Mascherano is one of the most intelligent players I’ve seen in my career. He’s a football player and a coach.
On the young players
I love to work with young players. Now I realize in a short time working with players from the second team, I’m really impressed.
Ready for the EPL challenge
I am here to prove myself. It would have been comfortable to stay where I was but I feel this is the right moment to move here. I know how difficult it is here in England – to find a team to win 4, 5, 6 games in a row is not easy. Maybe that’s the challenge. This place is amazing. The best place for young players to improve skills. Whether we play good or bad it won’t be the facilities.
New signings
All the clubs in the world try to make the best squad as possible. It’s not the right place to talk about new signings. We want to make the fans proud. To be proud of what we do and what they see.

			
			Post Views: 
			113