Share this on WhatsApp



Zenith Bank Plc. has launched a new mobile banking solution to make banking simpler and interesting, allowing anyone with a mobile phone to do transactions such as buy airtime, transfer money, pay bills, check your balance and even open a Zenith Bank account, anytime and anywhere.
Customers register by dialing *966# from their registered mobile numbers and following a simple set-up as prompted by a string of instructions after which they can easily carry out banking activities anytime, anywhere, from the comfort of their mobile phones.
To open a Zenith Bank account, potential customers are required to dial *966*0# and follow the prompts, following which an account number is automatically generated for the customer and they can start running the account after a short visit to any of the bank’s branches.
ALSO SEE: Zenith leads 9 others in top1000 bank ranking
The Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) banking solution enables people to perform financial transactions on all known mobile phones (Feature, Smartlite or Smart), without having to go on the net or download a mobile app.
USSD is a Global System for Mobile (GSM) communication technology used to send texts between a mobile phone and an application program in the owner network and the adoption of this technology allows people to do a lot of banking transactions even on the most basic of mobile phones.
Some of the other transactions that can be performed via the bank’s *966# Eazybanking product and their respective codes are: account balance enquiries (*966*00#); airtime purchase (*966*Airtime Amount*Mobile Number#) and funds transfer (Dial *966*Amount to Transfer*Beneficiary Account Number#).
*966# transactions can only be performed from the phone number registered against a customer’s account with Zenith Bank and require a 4-digit PIN for transaction authentication. Visit www.zenithbank.com/966 to find out more.
The introduction of this banking solution will further enhance Zenith Bank’s reputation and excite its stakeholders, especially as a recent research by Juniper Research showed that one in seven people (one billion people) in the world used their phones to perform at least one banking transaction as at the end of 2015. This is projected to grow by 37% to two billion of the world’s adult population by 2020.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment