Share this on WhatsApp



…as NSA uncovers N4 billion

By IFEOMA IKEM
As President Muhammadu Buhari anti-corruption war is penetrating into every sector and government agencies and departments, especially on those that stole money, the office of the National Security Adviser (NSA) under the watch of Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd) has uncovered over N4 Billion security fraud within the Presidency.
This was revealed following a thorough security audit and verification exercise ordered by the NSA.
It was learnt that the verification exercise unearth about 29 ghost security personnel who have been on security pay roll in the presidency over the years.
It was gathered that investigation further revealed that prior to the emergence of Buhari administration, the internal Aso rock Security budget was put at N6.5billion for 2015.
A source indicated that Gen. Monguno sought and got the express approval of the President Buhari to embark on the exercise in line with the anti-corruption campaign of the present administration.
N4 billion, it was learnt, was part of the N6.5billion dedicated to the security personnel and logistics in the presidency most of which went into private pockets. National Daily gathered that the NSA who considered the figure as outrageous insisted that it should be reduced.
He was said to have subsequently brought the figure down to N2Billion, a move commended and approved by the President. According to reliable security source confirmed that this exercise did not go down well with some persons in and around the security circle who felt the exercise would expose their dirty deals.
A particular security agency, National Daily gathered also delayed their auditing and verification for six months before releasing its personnel for the exercise few days ago. Interestingly, under the N6.5Billion fraudulent budget regime, junior security personnel in the presidency received N18,000 per month while the senior personnel were entitled to N35,000 only with no form of welfare packages.
ALSO SEE: Power play crisis hits Aso Rock
Currently under the supervision of the NSA with a realistic budget of N2Billion being effectively deployed to the general benefit and welfare of men and women saddled with the responsibility of the safety and security in the Presidency; the junior security personnel who were paid N18, 000 under the N6.5billion budget regime, now enjoys a minimum of N80,000; while the senior personnel who received N35,000 then, now collect a minimum of N150, 000 including other benefits.
The new security budget regime introduced another new middle level cadre of personnel with a minimum of N100,000 monthly allowances and attached benefits. This upward review of allowances, it was learnt, is to ensure professional hierarchy and discipline aimed at boosting the morale of all the security personnel in the discharge of their statutory duties in the presidency.
Apart from increment in their monthly allowances, another quarterly allowance was also said to have been introduced by the NSA as special duty quarterly allowance for all the security personnel in the presidency.
Under this arrangement; N80,000; N85,000 and N90,000 go to the junior, middle and senior cadre respectively. It was also reliably gathered that the establishment of departmental allowance to enable each department function effectively in the presidency.
The flagrant show of power and rivalry between the former CSO to President Buhari, Abdulrahman Mani and Aide de camp Lt. Col. Lawal Abubakar got to a climax in June 2015, when the two officers issued counter directives concerning the duties and operations of various agencies working in the Villa.
The military hierarchy allegedly declined the involvement of other sister agencies not directly involved in the Arms deal.  However, security experts and some civil society groups have called on the president to extend this measure to other departments.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment