Share this on WhatsApp
The Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sanni Usman, has said there were no longer camps of Boko Haram terrorists in the North-Eastern part of the country.

Usman made the assertion while addressing newsmen at the inauguration of Strategic Communication Course for senior officers at the Nigerian Army School of Public Relations and Information, Bonny Camp, Lagos.

Usman, while assuring Nigerians that the military was winning the war against terrorism, said there were no more terrorists clustered in a particular place in the area.

“The situation in the North-East has tremendously improved. The military operations or the fight against terrorism and insurgency in the North-East is hinged on three things.

“First, defeating the Boko Haram terrorists which have been accomplished and making room to facilitate humanitarian assistance which is also ongoing.

“Then restoration of law and order for good governance to take place.

“We no longer have camps of Boko Haram terrorists and we no longer have them conveyed in the territories,’’ he said.

“Those that were hitherto close are now open to the extent that we have trans-border trade.

“Take for instance; just recently, the important road that links Nigeria, Chad and Cameroon was just re-opened.

“We have come to the point that we can beat our chest and decisively say we have dealt with Boko Haram.’’

On the inauguration of the communication course, Usman said that training of personnel was paramount, adding that it would enhance proficiency.

“It is in this regard that the Directorate of Army Public Relations places high premium on training of officers and soldiers.

“The Nigerian Army School of Public Relations and Information must remain focused in the training of officers and soldiers to meet the need of well trained and skilled manpower.

“This is the first of its kind to further enhance further joint operations of the armed forces and possibly international military engagement,’’ Usman said.

ALSO SEE: Army arrests gun kingpin in Plateau

“It is my hope that this course will make the desired impact on all of you and explicit growth fertilisation of ideas among the participants.

“It is also our desire to see that at the end of the course, we turn out better informed senior officers.

“Also, they should be well-equipped to partake in making or taking strategic decision for the Nigerian army information and dissemination management,’’ he said.

Usman thanked the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai for improving the Nigerian Army formations.

The NASPRI commandant, Col. John Agim, said the course was to better equip senior officers who were saddled with the responsibility of shaping the information environment.

“As you settle down to face the rigours of this course, I urge you to take advantage of this training to enhance your capacity in public relations.

“Also, enhance your capacity in information management and by extension in the profession of arms,’’ Agim said.

Agim said the course which would run for three months would be on media planning and crisis management, media matters and interview skills and digital media influence among others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment