Share this on WhatsApp








Detectives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of the Lagos Police Command have arrested 14 suspects for stealing seven computers and its accessories in a public school at Shomolu, in Lagos.
They also recovered four mini laptops, a LaserJet scanner, a desktop and a printer belonging to the school from the suspects.
It was learnt that the suspects were arrested on Wednesday morning when RRS Intelligence Team stumbled on a lead that one of the suspects was lurking in a gaming shop at 29, Awoseni Streets, Shomolu.
On interrogation, the suspect, who turned out to be a buyer of one of the stolen mini laptops specifically designed for secondary school pupils, led to the arrest of the principal suspect and 13 others.
The gang leader, Yinka Adesola, 19, an athlete, disclosed that one Julius Akinyele, 20, a phone repairer, who he accommodated, brought seven mini laptops, one scanner, one desktop, a Central Processing Unit (CPU) and a LaserJet printer belonging to a popular public school for keep in his apartment.
Explaining how he got the computers, he stated “I knew he was a wayward guy. I accommodated him because his relatives whom he was staying with were relocating from Shomolu. I offered to assist him since I had an apartment to myself.”
“He was my junior in secondary school. He was one of my fans while I was competing for the school and Local Governments in the state,” the suspect stated.
He continued, “Immediately he started staying with me, a lot of things started missing in the compound. Neighbours were losing their phones. Later, we discovered that he was the one stealing all the phones. My parents directed me that I tell him to move out and I did.”
Adesola further explained that before taking that decision, “he had brought seven mini computers, one scanner, one desktop, a laserjet printer for keeps in my room. Although, I saw the name of the school on those items, since he was always visiting that school, I didn’t know they were stolen items”.
ALSO SEE: Lagos Militants attack : Police arrest four suspects
It was learnt that after a long while he didn’t see his friend, he attempted to sell all the items. “I sold the desktop, printer and four mini laptops, those that I have not sold, I gave them out to friends and people that I know can help me sell them”, he stated.
Also arrested with the suspect were Lookman Sokoya, 34; Wasiu Adejare, 30; Ismaila Adebowale, 42; Ahmed Olaleye, 17 and Ramon Mukaila.
According to investigators, only six out of the 15 suspects arrested were directly connected to burgled school and stolen computers and its accessories.
Four of the suspects were released to their relatives while the remaining five suspects were detained for their link to cult activities in Shomolu.
The suspects, Kazeem Adenuga, 24; Owolabi Yusuph, 35; Wasiu Shodipe, 27; Samson Kareem, 34 and Sheriff Badru, 22, were arrested when investigators discovered that  they were involved in ceaseless violence in Awoseni Street on Tuesday night.
Confirming the incidence, the Police Public Relations Officer, Superintendent Dolapo Badmos said the suspects have been transferred to SCID for further investigation.
She added that the Command was leaving no stone unturned towards reducing crime in the state and make it safe for investment.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment