By ADEWUMI ADEMIJU, Ado Ekiti
ACTIVIST lawyer, Mr. Morakinyo Ogele, has called Ekiti State Governor Ayo Fayose to resign from office or be chased out of the Government House by people whose resources have been allegedly mismanaged in the last two years of his administration.
Ogele who spoke with reporters in a telephone chat also warned Fayose against blackmailing Lagos lawyer Femi Falana as being the mastermind of his latest brush with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
He stressed that Fayose is no longer “fit and proper” to continue to occupy the seat of the governor by the latest revelations of alleged purchase of property within and outside the country with public funds.
The National Coordinator of Ekiti Redemption Group (ERG) regretted that Ekiti is again in the news for the wrong reasons over the alleged involvement of Fayose in the sharing of arms cash.
Ogele said judging by the ongoing probe of Fayose by the EFCC, the anti-graft agency has been vindicated for its crackdown on the governor in 2006 which led to his removal from office.
He said: “I am now giving Fayose seven days to resign from office, pack his bags and baggage from the Government House and leave Ekiti otherwise I will not hesitate to lead a massive protest to chase him out of the Government House.
ALSO SEE: I deposited N300m in my frozen account — Fayose
“I want to warn Fayose to leave Femi Falana out of his problems, he should stop saying Falana is the one trying to remove him.
“Fayose should tell the whole world whether it was Falana that encouraged him to be involved in unprecedented corruption and looting of the people’s commonwealth.
“He should also tell the world whether it was Falana who directed him to receive kickbacks from contractors. He should equally tell the world whether Falana ordered him to be involved in Dasukigate.
“There is no way Fayose can convince the people of Ekiti State that he is fit and proper to rule Ekiti again because he has ridiculed Ekiti people before the whole world and the people are now regretting that Fayose is the governor of Ekiti State.
“By virtue of his conduct, Fayose has shown that his indictment by the EFCC in 2006 was justified and there is no way he can convince the right-thinking person that he has not looted Ekiti funds.
“During his two-year misrule, he has shown that he is the root of poverty, untimely deaths and disregard for the rule of law that are prevailing in Ekiti State.”

			
			Post Views: 
			130