Share this on WhatsApp



The decision of Ford motors, South Africa to introduce its global Ford Driving Skills for Life programme in Nigeria later this month has been commended by the Nigeria Auto Journalists Association.
Speaking on the initiative that is intended by Ford to train drivers on the various technique of safe driving, Mike Ochonma, Vice Chairman of NAJA said the programme is coming at the right time.
According to him, NAJA is putting together a training/Seminar workshop for its member later this month.  “We are very pleased that we have been able to partner with Ford so that we can include the Driving Skills for Life training into our overall program. This driver training is very important for our members as it is at the core of their profession. It is also supportive of the government’s initiatives to improved road safety in our country and to cut the death toll on our roads,” he said.
Similarly, the Managing Director of MasterDrive, Eugene Herbert, the organisation facilitating the Ford’s DSFL programme in many parts of the world, commended Ford for its determination at enhancing safe driving skills in Nigeria.
My team is looking forward to introducing young Nigerians to the many benefits that flow from undergoing a Ford DSFL course,” he added.
ALSO SEE: Globe Motors partners Stanbic IBTC on auto finance scheme
Ford launched DSFL in the United States in 2003 and the system has been improved and adapted to suit local conditions in many global markets over the years. The first DSFL training session in Nigeria will take place at the Lekki premises of Coscharis Motors on July 30.
The half-day DSFL training starts with a one hour theoretical session followed by practical training where the trainee is accompanied by a professional driver trainer in cars provided by Ford. The practical exercise includes a pre-trip inspection, experiencing braking distances from 60km/h and 120km/h as well as staggered following distances. Then there is an ABS braking exercise, a reaction test and finally a slalom activity to evaluate car control.
DSFL is a free, advanced driving skills programme for newly-licensed drivers as well as a means of improving the defensive driving ability of experienced drivers. It is funded by the not-for-profit Ford Motor Company Fund as an effective method of improving driving skills globally and so contributing to road safety.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment