Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
The Oshodi Isolo constituency people can now heave a sigh of relief, as save and portable water is now available all round the seven wards,owing to Hon. Olushola Shokunle’s member of the Lagos State House of Assembly thirst to fulfill electioneering campaign promises to the people.
The major project which constituents noted was unequalled in the area, were commissioned by stakeholders in the various locations,including Ishola Daniel’s,Igbeyinadun,Idera Market,Aremu Olatunbosun,Fadeyi Branco and others.
The lawmaker, one amongst the eight that made it to the house on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) platform, was quick to add that not only his party loyalist benefitted from the project as many areas where the All Progressives Congress (APC) held sway were also favoured.
According to Shokunle, my priority right from the scratch was to ensure a sane Oshodi where education is accessible for all,by which youth restiveness will be tamed.
ALSO SEE: Sen. Na’ Allah pats himself for rejecting OBJ’s N5Om bribe
“But along the line we also discovered that 80 percent of the people needed portable water and the funds were not available, so I had to make arrangement for a special saving package from my earnings for the project and here we are commissioning nine boreholes in a day and it is to fetched by all free of charge”.
“The CDA’s will be in charge of the boreholes in their various domain, for maintenance and proper use,” Shokunle said.
Constituents present at the commissioning exercise, had this to say,”we have been in bondage in the hands of the opposition, we lacked many social amenities,thank God for Shokunle well water whose source easily get polluted is what we had prior to now”.
Some of the community stakeholders who commissioned the boreholes includes: Pa. Showunmi PDP stalwart in Oshodi, Alhaji Biliaminu Oyinlola a reagent of Oshodi,Alhaja Rabiatu Agbalaya, councillorship aspirants for some wards, Hon.Tobi Jimoh,Hon. Uche Monye,Hon.Kunle Oyewole and many others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment