Share this on WhatsApp



Everybody is mourning a woman many saw as a mother in the Nollywood sector. She died few days after her NTA colleague and joint recipient of the Merit Award by MNET, Sadiq Daba, talked about the very low salary they were entitled to at the Nigeria Television Authority. In that LTV interview Sadiq made an open plead to Lai Mohammed to work on the remuneration of staffers of the broadcasting outfit. He also spoke about how most of his old colleagues are taken by deaths. The traditional and social media was lit by fire as fans and friends mourned the departed Bukky Ajayi. EDIALE KINGSLEY reports.
Lai Mohammed Mourns:
The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has described Zainab Bukola Ajayi, who died on Wednesday, as an iconic thespian and a colossus of her time who has left an indelible footprint in the country’s creative landscape. Legendary actress, Bukky Ajayi dies at 82, buried amid tears In a statement issued in Abuja on Thursday, the Minister said despite her advanced age, it was still with a sense of sadness and great loss that he received the news of the death of the veteran actress and broadcaster. He described the late stage and screen actress as a multi-talented creative person who started off her career as a television presenter and news reader before taking to acting, where she excelled. ”Her journey in the Nigerian creative industry spans decades of amazing performances in classic productions such as the unforgettable Village Headmaster and a number of critically-acclaimed stage and screen productions like ThunderBolt, Oduduwa, Women’s Cot, Mother of George and The Sisters. ”Her name will be etched in the mind of her colleagues and fans in Nollywood because of the memories she gave all of us to cherish. There is no doubt that she will forever be an inspiration to generations of people in the creative industry,” Alhaji Mohammed said. The Minister prayed for the repose of the soul of the deceased and for succour for those she left behind.
NANTAP, AGN Mourn:
The National President of the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN), Mr Emeka Ike, on Wednesday expressed shock over the demise, “Bukky Ajayi is my mother, a veteran actress, a hero and a role model. We pray that the Lord accepts her soul so she can rest in peace; the Lord also should reward her for what she did for humanity. He urged television stations, especially DSTV, to pay royalty to her children, adding that this will provide succor to the family. “We also urge people, media houses, especially DSTV, to calculate everything that is tenable to her and pay it through her children.” Mr Launcelot Imaseun, a movie producer, described Ajayi as an “Amazon“and very visible in theatre arts performance. “The last time I saw Bukky Ajayi was on March 5 when she received an award of merit. “She mounted the podium on a wheelchair and she pleaded for the forgiveness from whoever she had offended and that she had forgiven people who offended her, which was like a valedictory statement. “That was quite emotional and I commend MNET Africa, Africa Magic and other stakeholders for organizing that award because I have always advocated that people should be honored while alive. “It is not when the person dies everyone will now be writing all manner of things. I feel so fulfilled that I was there when she was so graciously honored by the industry. “We give God the glory that she lived a fulfilled life,” he said. Mr Chukwuemeka Okereafor, Chairman National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP) Federal Capital Territory chapter, said it was unfortunate the industry was losing its great personalities. Okereafor however, said that the death of members was a clarion call for others endeavours to live a legacy.
ALSO SEE: Ghanians can’t criticize Nollywood — Bukky Wright
Rita Dominic, Darey Eulogize her
Numerous tributes trailed the death of the iconic thespian. Famous actress, Rita Dominic and songwriter, Darey took to their Twitter accounts to pay their last respects to the veteran actress.
“RIP mama Bukky Ajayi… Glad I got to work with you one last time… You will always be remembered…”
“Death is not the end…for love goes on! Farewell Bukky Ajayi. A thespian great goes home…”
Here are 14 things to know about the woman thespian and veteran broadcaster.
1. She was born a Christian but converted to Islam in the early eighties and chose the name Zainab.
2. Her love for the theatre started as a young girl when her father used to take her to the cinemas.
3. When she was a very young , her interest for acting was so much that she used to do a cardboard sort of cinema for children, and used to charge them half a penny to come and watch.
4. She studied in England for six years as a federal government scholar.
5. She started working in Nigeria Television Authority(NTA) as a presentation assistant in 1966, a year after she got back from England.
6. Afterwards, she became a presenter and then a news reader.
7. She presented a couple of children’s programmes and Nigerian’s Sketches, a programme which was all about Nigerian culture, and Diran Ajijedidun of blessed memory was her producer.
8. She was later transferred to Port Harcourt and later back to Lagos, and it was at that time she started her acting career.
9. She started with the Village Headmaster in the 70s, and she later got a role in Amaka Igwe’s Checkmate.
10. Bukky Ajayi was recently back on set with Toyin Aimakhu, Yomi Fabiyi, Kehinde Adeyemi and Taiwo Oduala.
11. Bukky Ajayi was recently back on set with Toyin Aimakhu, Yomi Fabiyi, Kehinde Adeyemi and Taiwo Oduala.
12. She featured in so many home videos that she also lost count before her demise her popular movies include Mother of George, Indecent Girl, Diamond Ring, Witches, Thunderbolt among others.
13. The shooting of international film Critical Assignment in South Africa, was one of the events of her life that she will never forget. It gave her an opportunity to see how movies are done elsewhere.
14. Bukky Ajayin attending the 2016 African Magic Viewer’s Choice Awards. She was awarded with AMVCA 2016 ‘Industry Merit Award’ alongside another veteran actor, Sadiq Daba for their contributions towards the growth of the Nollywood.
15. She dispelled a death rumor in 1970 in an interview with Daily Times Newspaper.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment