THE Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru has made a passionate appeal to the Nigerian military to help secure critical oil and gas infrastructure and curb the losses incurred by the corporation due to the nefarious activities of pipeline vandals and oil thieves.
Dr. Baru who led a strong delegation of NNPC Top Management on a courtesy call on the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olonishakin at the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, disclosed that from January to May this year, almost 1,447cases of pipeline hacking was recorded resulting to a loss of 109 million litres of petrol and 560,000 barrels of crude oil to refineries posing a great threat to the nation’s economy and the 2016 federal budget.
Gen. Olonishakin in his response said that the Defence Headquarters and the armed forces are duty bound to support and provide the NNPC with all necessary security support because of its strategic role in ensuring the economic survival of the nation.
ALSO SEE: NNPC plans energy renewable plant in Benue
Throwing more light on the episodes of pipeline vandalism, the NNPC GMD stated that over 3000 vandalism incidents were recorded every year from 2010-2015. In 2015 alone, pipeline losses of PMS volume of over 643 million litres valued at over N51.28 billion was incurred.
“The 2016 National budget plan was based on 2.2 million barrels per day of crude oil production. However, the budget plan is now grossly impacted due to renewed militancy: with about 700, 000 bpd of oil production curtailed due to pipeline vandalism,” he said.
The NNPC GMD noted that domestic natural gas supply to power is equally impacted with estimated drop of about 50 percent from 1400 million standard cubic feet of gas per day, mmscfd to barely 700mmscfd resulting to significant power outage exposure of between 2500MW to 3000 MW as a result of direct and indirect impact.
“Along with this menace is the incessant case of kidnapping of personnel and piracy in areas of operations. Other impacts of these despicable acts include loss of lives, high cost of operations, refinery shut down, fuel crisis and large scale environmental degradation and attendant cost of oil spill clean-ups,” he said.