THE Technical Adviser of Sunshine Stars Int. Football Club of Akure, Coach Solomon Ogbeide and Captain Abe Sunday have restated their commitments to do everything within their reach to actualize the ambition of the Akure based team this soccer season.
Speaking in Akure during cash presentations to the team and individual awards by the club management led by the President Prince John Ola Mafo, following victory over MFM FC of Lagos in a week 24 match of the NPFL in Akure, both men said the gesture which is now a regular occurrence after every victory will continue to inspire for more success.
Coach Ogbeide said “we shall continue to be grateful for what God is doing through the management in the life of the team. We have every course to appreciate the efforts of the management as they always bring out the best from the players”.
In his words, Captain Abe Sunday who could not hide his joy said the players are more focused than never before to succeed.
“As a group, we have made up our minds not to rest on our oars until we achieve the set targets. The regular encouragement and motivation being received by the players have gone a long way in changing our mentality”.
ALSO SEE: Jose Mourinho wants Paul Pogba as priority signing
“We shall continue to work hard in a bid to bring smiles to the faces of the soccer loving people of the state especially Mr Governor, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko who is our number one supporter”.
Earlier, the club President, Prince John Ola Mafo who commended the players for the performance against MFM FC, charged them to remain focused.
According to him, with hard work, dedication, determination, commitment, and unity as well as self sacrifice, the Akure based team will realize its ambition this soccer season.
The ODSFA boss said the welfare of the players will continue to receive utmost attention.
Sunshine Stars who are now on an eight (8) match unbeaten runs in all competition, (6) in the league and (2) in the Federation Cup, will this weekend keep a date with FC Ifeanyi Ubah in a week 25 match of the NPFL billed for Nnewi.
Sunshine Stars are occupying the 5th position on the table with 35 points from 22 matches.

			
			Post Views: 
			271