Although Sen. Dino Melaye has stated in his defence he’ll always uphold the culture of Kogi West Senatorial District, women activists are already mobilising against him in Abuja for sexually harassing Lagos Sen. Oluremi Tinubu.
While he didn’t say what exactly the Kogi culture is as it regards women battering, Melaye has a reputation for domestic abuse, and a string of violence trailing him in his marriage and relationship over the years.
Melaye, according to media report, threatened to beat up and impregnate the wife of APC leader Bola Tinubu, during a NASS closed door session last week,
Here is a bevy of the fair ones who have had the bittersweet experience of being wives or mistresses of the 49-year-old Twitter-generation politician.
ALSO SEE: Melaye is your dino in the chamber 

Falope Alero was the second love of the Kogi politician whose marriage came apart in 2014 over allegations of punching, and other physical abuses. Alero was said to be five months gone with their second child when Dino began pasting her. The police and hospitals have the records.
Nollywood’s actress Bisi Ibidapo-Obe, one of Melaye’s bed-buddies, got pregnant for him2012. He initially denied being responsible for the bump. And the denial was such that got so serious it attracted media attention. Ibidapo-Obe suffered no physical abuse –only emotional and psychological violence.
Lola Alao, Ibidapo-Obe’s friend, cottoned to Melaye in the course of brokering peace between the two lovers. Alao and Melaye eventually hit it off, and got really all out. Her pregnancy? Managed.
Tokunbo Fabiyi was the first to steal Melaye’s heart. She took all the pounding as grist in her mill until she couldn’t cope with the bullyboy she married. She took her kids and bailed out of the marriage years ago.

Sen. Tinubu has expressed fear she could be the next victim, and she’s asked for police protection.
Melaye was a rep in the lower house from 2007 to 2010 when he committed most of the abuses.

			
			Post Views: 
			328