By Odunewu Segun
 
Christians in the country have been urged to continue to pray for the peaceful co-existence and development of Nigeria despite the religious diversity in the nation.
 
Dr. Paul Oluwole Obadare, General Overseer of World Soul Evangelical Ministry (WOSEM) made the call while speaking on state of the nation at a press conference organised by the church in Lagos last Sunday.  “Prayer is the way forward and i urge all Nigerians to love one another, to ensure peace and unity among the people, irrespective of their religious inclination.”
 
The Clergy said the peace and development of the nation depends on the fervent prayers by believers, adding that “The peace and prosperity of any nation is tied to the role of the church’’. He said both Christian Muslims must join hands and pray for good leadership; “it is only in that togetherness that we can build one strong united nation that we all along craved for.”
 
According to him, Nigeria is a secular State, and any attempt to turn the country into a one religion country will be catastrophic for the country. He said despite the religious diversities in the country, Nigeria is God’s own country, and any attempt to cause chaos through this diversity would be frustrated by God.
 
“There’s more to the unity of this country, those who are planning division through religion will be judge by God. If you are a Muslim or a Christian, practice it well because no leader will be allow to curtail the religious sentiments of any citizen,” he said.

ALSO SEE: Christians have responsibility to engineer change – Rev Thompson

Dr. Obadare regretted that some Nigerian exploit the nation’s fault lines of religious, political or ethnic point of views so that they would occupy the top and the rest will be at the base.
He said, “That type of situation will not promote peace and unity, we need to live in harmony together and respect the rights, dignity and progress of other people. We should not promote ourselves over and above others, for that type of thing can never promote peace.”
While supporting the efforts of the government to rid the country of corruption, he said President Muhammadu Buhari must do more to correct all the injustices visited on Nigerians over the years. He however castigated the government for the deplorable state of the economy, especially infrastructures.
 
He said the present over dependence on oil as the main stay of the economy will not do Nigeria any good but rather the country should explore other areas of investment. He also advised the Federal Government to allow States to control their resources in other for them to be able to take care of their citizens.
 
Also speaking at the event, Rev Paul Tunde TiOluwani of Bibleway Crusader Church, otherwise known as Baba Lesekese said the only time darkness could prevail over light is when people with light refuse to put them on.
 
He said the President must wake up to his responsibilities, and not mixed the issues of religion with governance. “Nigeria’s problems transcend religious diversities; he should concentrate on reviving the economy.”
Rev TiOluwani also advised the Federal Government to revisit the amnesty programs in other to foster peace in the restive Niger Delta region of the country.










			
			Post Views: 
			172