Share this on WhatsApp



From ADEWUMI ADEMIJU, Ado Ekiti
THE Ekiti APC Youth Frontier Coordinator, Mr. Dapo Ipoola, has called on the Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose, to pay workers the five -month salaries and other emoluments being owed by his administration.
The youth coordinator who made the call while speaking with newsmen in Ado-Ekiti said the present labour imbroglio breaking out of Ekiti was something disheartening.
“For months now the Fayose-led state government has been unable to pay workers salary and other pecuniary emoluments,” he stated.
Adding: “The inability of the state government to do this is something that is outrageously callous because the governor is taking his own entitlements such as 250m security vote and as well 250m running grant, which is half of a billion in a month.
“How do you justify human feeling when civil servants are languishing in abject poverty? Even the governor once jokingly said that before famine could enter government house, thousands of Ekiti people must have died of unconquerable hunger. The labour situation in Ekiti is this absurd and offensively condescending.”
ALSO SEE: See 5 mouth-watering assets Fayose now owns—with less than N10m in savings before he became gov.
Ipoola stressed that during Fayemi’s administration paucity of funds was also encountered but dealt with by effulgent administrative prowess.
He said Fayose’s government had fallen short of such creative approach because the governor had chosen to surround himself with tyrants and disoriented bunch of charlatans.
His words: “How would the state progress? Exigent call for the emperor to resign is just the panacea before any unbridled cataclysmic escalation.
“To justify his executive ineffectuality, the governor has always been inconsistent with the quote of debt owed by the previous administration.
“But thank God that the Debt Management Office has done justice to that. And, why has the governor in a recalcitrant manner refused to read the Handover Note presented to him?
“Even if the governor cannot read it his cyber bull dog, Lere Olayinka should be able to do so. If not cheer wickedness the governor left the salary of the civil servants unattended to and concerned himself with the building of flyovers.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment