Share this on WhatsApp
THE Night of Bliss Benin City hosted by the Zonal Pastor of Christ Embassy Benin Zone 1, Pastor Moses Olayemi, is still the talk of the town.
The build up to the program was swift and expertly executed. Teams handling various aspects to put the program together worked in synergy. The street storms, the publicity material, the equipment for the program, the music ministers billed to attend, the stadium and stage set up days to the program, everything depicted a world class event.
The talk on everybody’s lips was that the city of Benin will never be the same again, and indeed, Benin has not been the same ever since.
On the day of the program at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, invitees started trooping into the venue as early as 3:00pm, for an event that was billed for 6:00pm. Before long, the stadium got filled and invitees were moved to the over flows outside the stadium. The event started with beautiful gospel renditions by invited gospel artistes such as JoePraize, Eben, Victor Ike, PU and the world renown Sinach. Also among the team of gospel ministers where the Benin Zone 1 all stars Mass Choir led by Sis. Uwa. Gospel Comedian, Bishop Chikancy, Jude Sax, Allen also performed to the expectations of the invitees. At about 8:00pm, the Governor of Edo State, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole accompanied by his wife and several commissioners and other top government officials arrived the venue for the miracle night.
At the appointed time, Pastor Moses mounted the pulpit and began his ministration with thanks to the President of the BLW nation for providing the platform to feed God’s children with spiritual food, and also bless the workers in the ministry. His main text was from the message preached by Pastor Chris titled “Jesus”. Expounding on this teaching, Pastor Moses covered sought to answer the question on “Who Jesus Is.”
ALSO SEE: Benin City agog as Night of Bliss holds this week
He started with the first epistle of St. John Chapter 4, verse 14 highlighting that “If you are born again you cannot perish (the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made you free from the law of sin and death).
He quoted several other scriptures to highlight the fact that Christians are free from bondage. Having shown them through the scriptures that bondage wasn’t from God, that only Jesus could change their lives forever. He reiterated that Jesus came to bring life, remove bondage and heal them. It was in His plan all along.
At this point, signs, miracles and wonders started happening from every part of the Stadium. First, it was Favour Omonigho who came into the venue with an unequal gait caused by a car accident years before, as the Man of God called her case, her leg grew out and she was able to walk straight for the first time in years. Many, especially those who were sitting very close to her, were shocked at the sudden transformation.
Then Mr. Benjamin Okoye who was mentally challenged got healed and regained the use of his senses. Immediately, he started reading and writing. A little baby was also healed of hydrocephalus, and the baby’s head visibly shrunk during the meeting as she slept soundly for the first time in months in her mother’s arms. It was indeed an awesome display of the power of God. Miracle after miracle where announced and celebrated by the over twenty thousand people congregated both inside and outside the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium. People under the oppression from demonic attacks was freed. Pastors from other ministries were also touched by the uncommon manifestation of the presence of God.
When the man of God gave the alter call, a total of 788 souls stepped out of the aisles to receive Jesus as their Lord and Savior. They were given free copies of the Rhapsody Bible, Now that you are Born Again and also copies of the March edition of Rhapsody of Realities were freely given out in thousands. The very next day they were present in the Church premises for a prearranged get acquainted party where over 250 of those new souls got baptized by immersion and got inducted into the first timer’s class.
It was indeed a miracle crusade that changed Benin City forever, people are still talking of the overwhelming impact of that programme till date.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment