Share this on WhatsApp



Musa Muhammad Sada, a former minister of Mines and Steel in Nigeria, has joined the list of prominent Nigerians now making confessions concerning how funds were squandered in the immediate past administration of Dr Goodluck Jonathan and what roles they played in the entire scandal.
Sada has told the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the country’s anti-graft agency, that he received N700 million from the alleged N23.29 billion spent on bribing top politicians and other Nigerians during the general election of 2015.
In a statement posted on a social media wall by the EFCC, the agency said Sada, who served in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration of Dr Jonathan, said he collected N700 million, but that he did it on behalf of Ibrahim Shema, former governor of Katsina state.
He told interrogators that Shema asked him to forward the money to the state commissioner of finance in Shema’s government for keep.
ALSO SEE: Court remands Fani-Kayode in EFCC custody
The EFCC also announced that a former minister of state for agriculture, Asabe Asmau Ahmed, from Niger state, told investigators that she personally signed and collected N450 million. She added that she kept N105 million for herself and gave the balance to top officials of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Niger State. Another former minister in the cabinet, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau had denied that he received campaign fund from the Peoples Democratic Party but admitted the money was shared in his house. Aminu Bashir Wali who served as minister during the administration of Goodluck Jonathan implicated Shekarau when he was invited by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)
Aminu Bashir Wali who served as minister during the administration of Goodluck Jonathan implicated Shekarau when he was invited by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Wali reportedly returned part of the money which he admitted he received on behalf of Kano state. He had said: “It is true I have received N950m in my capacity as party stalwart. Kano is a very big state and we have used the money in accordance with what it was meant for just like other parties have equally done.
Source; Naij
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment