Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, has described the one year into the President Mohammadu Buhari led administration as one bent on readjustment and restructuring of the nation, an attempt he stressed will eventually bring about enduring economy and a virile Nigeria.
Obasa stated Nigerians should remain hopeful assuring that the country is on the way to recovery from the maladministration of the past.
The helmsman at the State Assembly stated this in his Democracy Day message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Musbau Rasak.
“It was obvious that the country has suffered serious maladministration in the 16 year rule of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and in correcting this, there is the need to put in place enduring structures that will assist in reviving the economy.
“The past one year has seen the laying of solid foundation on which the resurrected economy will rest. Without this solid foundation, the economy will be groping in the dark. This is what the All Progressives Congress (APC) government at the centre has been doing and we will soon start to see the benefits and gains,” Obasa said.
ALSO SEE: Lagos Assembly eulogizes Akiolu, mourns Oba Oloto; extols Governor Akinwunmi Ambode
He assured Nigerians that the APC administration at both state and national level is committed to putting in place solid structures that will ensure that Nigerians enjoy full dividends of democracy even at their doorsteps.
He also commended the Lagos Stare Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode who he said, has built on the solid foundation of his predecessors to put smiles on the face of Lagosians.
According to the Speaker, the case of Lagos should be a role model for other states in the federation. The state has been under the rule of the progressives for the past 16 years and the result has been that the state continues to grow in leaps and bounds.
The Akinwunmi Ambode administration has built on the foundations laid by his predecessors and he has achieved tremendous success in just 12 months.
“Lagos is growing, developing and making astronomical progress under Ambode, our Governor deserves commendation,” he said.
He  urged Nigerians not to relent in their support, cooperation and prayers for the APC government at both state and national level assuring that, “we’ve indeed got out of the dark tunnel, the light is here”.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment