Share this on WhatsApp



By OKOSUN DENNIS
The Nigerian Navy in Lagos on Monday paraded five suspected pipeline vandals with a wooden boat with over 200 jerry cans of 25 litres loaded with Premium Motor Spirit (PMS).
The Commander, Nigerian Navy Ship, NNS BEECROFT, Commodore Abraham Adaji, said the suspects, who are all Beninnois were arrested on May 25 along Badagry Creeks in Tongeji Island.
According to him, the suspects were arrested by the naval personnel serving in Forward Operating Base (FOB), Badagry, while on patrol.
The suspects are: Agbotou Firmin, Sohe Soule, Gbenou Daniel, Dosspu Vigor and Sodohe Oliver.
ALSO SEE: Navy conducts anti-piracy regional maritime exercise in Gulf of Guinea
The suspects were intercepted in a wooden boat conveying 25 litres rubber containers filled with petroleum products suspected to be PMS.
The product was allegedly siphoned from either vandalised pipeline or from supply meant for local consumption.
Adaji said during interrogation, the suspects claimed they were fishermen based in Port Novo, Benin Republic.
While speaking on Tongeji Island, Adaji said the navy patrolled the area to ensure the area is safe from pipeline vandals.
He added that the navy at all times ensured that the maritime environment was safe.
The suspects were handed over to the Lagos state Commandant, Tajudeem Balogun,  Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) for further investigation.
Also recovered from the suspects included one Yamaha 40HP outborad engine, one wooden boat and unconfirmed number of 25litres rubber containers filled with suspected petroleum products were also handed over to NSCDC.
Receiving the suspects, the Lagos State Commandant, NSCDC, Tanjudeen Balogun said he was elated by the confidence which the Navy reposed on them by deeming them worthy to judiciously investigate and prosecute the suspects.
He disclosed that other suspects handed over to them by the navy were at different stages of investigation and prosecution while some are being reminded in prisons.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment