Share this on WhatsApp



THE National Chairman, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, Alhaji Kiruwa Zuru, has declared support for Federal Government’s efforts to find a permanent solution to the recurring clashes between farmers and herdsmen.
Zuru made the declaration in an interactive session with Journalists in Birnin Kebbi on Saturday.
He was responding to the recent violence that occurred in some parts of the country that affected peaceful co-existence among communities.
He said the recent Presidential directive for security agencies to deal with perpetrators of the violence was a positive development and laudable.
Zuru asserted that it was alien for the Fulani herdsmen to be carrying weapons in the country and called for the prosecution of those carrying arms.
He emphasised that herdsmen would continue to support progress and development of the nation, especially in the areas of fighting corruption, insurgency and cattle rustling.
He also said that the association was concerned about violent clashes between farmers and the unidentified arms carrying herdsmen.
“The association has resolved to support any move that would bring permanent solution to the violence between communities and herdsmen,” Zuru said.
He called on the Federal Government to hasten creation and demarcation of grazing reserves and cattle ranches to control the movement of the herdsmen seeking pasture for their livestock.
ALSO SEE: Major disaster averted as military foiled Fulani Herdsmen attack on Dansadau
“In 1965, there were 485 grazing reserves out of which only 115 were functional; the remaining ones served as reserve forests.
“We urge government to hasten converting them into grazing reserves,” he said.
Zuru said that the Federal Polytechnic Birnin Kebbi, the state owned Sir Ahmadu Bello International Airport located in Ambursa and the Federal Capital Territory FCT Abuja were all demarcated as grazing reserves initially.
“Meanwhile, no replacement has been provided since the take-over of these reserves for development.
He lamented the incessant rustling of the herdsmen’s cattle by criminals, stressing that law abiding cattle breeders had lost an estimated 35 million Cows to cattle rustlers.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment