Share this on WhatsApp



IN recognition of its exceptional customer service, innovative online products and ethical business practices in 2016, Dana Air has been awarded for service excellence in aviation by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI).
The 2016 Commerce and Industry Awards, held recently in Lagos, is a yearly award ceremony, organized by the (LCCI) to recognize, celebrate, and promote private and public institutions who have exhibited the core values of best business practices, growth through innovations, and business sustainability.
According to the Director- General of LCCI, Mr. Muda Yusuf, “the Commerce and Industry Awards is a credible platform where winners emerge through a painstaking selection process from hundreds of entries supported by robust research and market intelligence.”
ALSO SEE: NLC, LCCI differ on new petrol pump price
Commenting further, he said, “We are celebrating corporate organizations and public institutions that have made remarkable contribution to the development Commerce and industry and the economy at large.
While receiving the award on behalf of the company, the Accountable Manager of Dana Air, Mr. Obi Mbanuzuo, thanked the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry for the recognition. He stated that the LCCI is a very credible organization and the award is a challenge to maintain the standards and excellence which Dana Air has come to be known for.
“We are delighted to have emerged winners in the aviation category. For us at Dana Air, this is a challenge not just to maintain the standards we have come to be known for, but to continue to review our services to meet and surpass the flying aspirations of our teeming guests.”
Obi, while dedicating the award to the Dana Air team, thanked the airlines’ customers for their loyalty and commitment. He said, ” our customers deserve the very best in service delivery and we are focused on providing exceptional value for our customers through amazing and rewarding products and services.”
Dana Air is one of Nigeria’s leading airlines, operating over 27 daily flights to Accra, Abuja, Lagos Port-Harcourt and Uyo. The airline is reputed for its efficient customer services, world- class in-flight services, on-time departures and arrivals, innovative e-airline products and high safety and quality standards.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment