Share this on WhatsApp



By LANRE ADESANYA
SADDENED by the seemingly weak opposition in the Lagos State House of Assembly, a lawmaker Amuwo Odofin I constituency, Hon.Dipo Olorunrinu has scored them four over ten, stressing that the Peoples Democratic Party’s faithfuls outside the divide are not happy about the turn of event in state legislature.
Olorunrinu made the disclosure at a media parley held recently in the Lagos State House of Assembly.
The lawmaker noted that, “the opposition party’s performance in the 8th Assembly in all sincerity is four over ten, but this is still pardonable because members are new in the House, the party faithfuls outside the divide are expecting better performance and we can’t give them excuses for failing them”.
Though we are not in this House to come and create problems but to move the state forward.
Commenting on the PDP state congress, he noted that “The congresses have been successful in some states. The party has a couple of powerful people with big ideas. Many of them believe in the transformation of the country.
“Lagos has been having some teething problems which has led to some forms of indecision causing changes in the date for state congresses. We want to see how not to fail again as a party.”
According to him, the delay does not portray the party as one without structure.
Assessing the performance of Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, the opposition lawmaker described the government as ‘transparent and democratic’.
Olorunrinu said, “I will assess Ambode’s government as transparent and responsive. It has been a government that is listening, the processes are actually democratic and it follows due process.
“Ambode has been excellent and quite encouraging in the last one year.”
On the forthcoming Local Government Elections in the state, the lawmaker said that the party was prepared for the poll and was committed to taking over government of Lagos State.
He, however, said that the party was not satisfied with the constitution of the membership of the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC) by the state government.
He added that he was committed to delivering his campaign promises to the constituents.
Chinese envoy lauds Buhari’s diplomatic tact.
ALSO SEE: Lagos Assembly set to enhance Neighbourhood watch operation
The out-going Chinese Consul General to Nigeria, Liu Kan on Thursday said that President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government was on the right track to economic development.
Kan made this remark during his farewell courtesy visit to the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr Mudashiru Obasa.
The envoy said that the recent visit of Buhari to China would strengthen economic relations between the two countries.
The outgoing consul general expressed confidence that Buhari’s recent visit to China will boost trade and commerce between both countries.
”I would like to use this opportunity to on behalf of the Chinese consul general office, express my appreciation for your care and support given me during my two and a half year stay in Nigeria.
“it is my emotional day to say good bye to my friend, Mr Obasa. I sincerely hope and believe that since the visit of President Buhari to China, the relationship has become better and better.’
”As you know, ten years ago, China and Nigeria have laboured hard to cooperate in all field to promote the relationship,” the envoy said.
Kan said that he would continue to strengthen relationship between China and Nigeria in his future endeavors.
According to him, the relationship between both countries has been fruitful over the years and the tempo must be built upon.
He said that his successor would take the relationship to a more profitable height.
In his response, Obasa said, “the benefit of the relationship between China and Lagos State cannot be overemphasized, Lagos in particular, will continue to collaborate with China for further economic ties.
”I can assure you that within these two and a half year, we have been best of friends, we have really enjoyed your relationship that will benefit the people of Lagos state.
”As you prepare to live, we will not forget you, we will continue to remember you, we will continue to remember those things that have joined us together.
“It will be difficult for me and my colleagues to forget you, we won’t forget you and we will continue to relate with your successor. Your people have been handling projects for us in Lagos and we will not forget you.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment