Share this on WhatsApp
Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed on Thursday charged the new Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of Information parastatal agencies to raise the set standard in making their organisations credible.

The minister gave the charge in Abuja at a meeting with the new CEOs and the former acting heads of the parastatal agencies.

Mohammed said that in the last three months, he had worked with the acting heads of the organisations to set standard for raising the credibility of the parastatal agencies.

The minister said that with the set standard, the organisations had become more credible than they used to be in the recent past.

He therefore urged the new CEOs to strive to improve on the set standards with new ideas and innovations.

The minister said that he was fortunate to have the set of new appointees by President Mohammadu Buhari to head the six parastatal agencies under his ministry.

Mohammed said he had worked with most of them at one time or the other and urged them to sustain the good working relationship with him.

Mohammed noted that the three months he had worked with the former acting CEOs of the organisations witnessed significant achievements.

ALSO SEE: NBC Loan: Lai Mohammed has collected thrice, says group of civil servants

Specifically, he said the period witnessed successful roll out of the pilot scheme of digital switch over in broadcasting, the first national summit on culture and tourism and hosting of town hall meetings.

The minister urged the former acting CEOs that as they return to their earlier positions in their respective organisations, they should cooperate with the new heads.

It will be recalled that the minister on Wednesday announced the appointment of the CEOs of six parastatal agencies under the Ministry of Information and Culture.

The appointees were, Mr. Bayo Onanuga, Managing Director of the News Agency of Nigeria, Mr. Yakubu Mohammed as Director-General of Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), and Mr. Osita Okechukwu as Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON).

Others were Mr. Mansur Liman as Director-General of Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), Mr. Ishaq Modibo-Kawu as Director-General of National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), and Garba Abari as Director-General of National Orientation Agency (NOA).
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment