Share this on WhatsApp

May Support Heart Health




Drinking coconut water may be helpful to reduce heart disease risk.
In one study, rats that consumed coconut water had reductions in blood cholesterol and triglycerides. They also experienced significant decreases in liver fat (15).
The same researchers conducted another study, in which rats were fed a similar diet and treated with the same dosage (4 ml/100 g of body weight) of coconut water.
After 45 days, the coconut water group had a reduction in cholesterol and triglyceride levels that rivaled the effects of a statin drug used to lower cholesterol (16).
However, it’s important to note that this was a very large dose. In human terms, it would be equivalent to a 150 lb (68 kg) person consuming 91 oz (2.7 liters) of coconut water per day.
Nevertheless, the finding that it reduced cholesterol as effectively as a statin drug is very impressive and should be further investigated.
Bottom Line: Animal studies suggest that coconut water may have powerful cholesterol-lowering properties.

May Reduce Blood Pressure

It may be also be a great beverage for keeping blood pressure under control.
One small study gave coconut water to people with high blood pressure. 71 percent experienced significant improvements to systolic blood pressure, which is the higher number of a blood pressure reading (17).
Additionally, it contains an impressive 600 mg of potassium in 8 oz (240 ml). Potassium has been shown to lower blood pressure in people with high or normal blood pressure (18, 19).
What’s more, one animal study found that coconut water has anti-thrombotic activity, which means it should help prevent the formation of blood clots (8).
Bottom Line: Coconut water may help lower blood pressure and potentially decrease the risk of blood clots forming in the arteries.
 7. Beneficial After Prolonged Exercise
Coconut water may be the perfect beverage for restoring hydration and replenishing electrolytes lost during exercise.
Electrolytes are minerals that play several important roles in the body, including maintaining proper fluid balance.
They include potassium, magnesium, sodium and calcium.
Two studies found that coconut water restored hydration after exercise better than water and equal to high-electrolyte sports beverages (20, 21).
ALSO SEE: 8 Health Benefits of Coconut Water (Part 1)
The participants also said it caused less nausea and stomach discomfort (20, 21).
However, another study comparing high-electrolyte beverages found that coconut water tended to cause the most bloating and stomach upset (22).
Bottom Line: Coconut water is effective at replenishing fluids and electrolytes after exercise. It is comparable to other sports beverages.

Delicious Source of Hydration

Coconut water is slightly sweet with a subtle, nutty flavor. It’s also fairly low in calories and carbs.
The water is freshest when it comes directly from the coconut. Simply press a straw into the soft part of a green coconut and start drinking.
Store the coconut in the refrigerator and consume it within two to three weeks of purchase.
You can also buy bottled coconut water at most grocery stores.
However, be sure to read the ingredients list to verify you’re getting 100 percent coconut water. Some bottled brands contain added sugar or flavoring agents.
It can be used in smoothies, chia seed pudding, vinaigrette dressing or substituted for plain water whenever you want a bit of natural sweetness.
Bottom Line: Coconut water can be consumed directly from green coconuts or in bottles. Avoid brands with added sugar, sweeteners or flavors.
Coconut Water is Super Healthy
Coconut water is a delicious, nutritious and natural beverage that is extremely good for you.
Although controlled studies are needed to confirm many of these benefits, the research to date is encouraging.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment