Share this on WhatsApp



BOMBARDIER landed a major order from Delta Air Lines for its C Series narrowbody jets, the companies announced Thursday.
The deal gives a major boost to Bombardier and its fledgling C Series, which has been slow to win orders among major carriers. Delta’s purchase includes 75 firm orders for Bombardier’s CS100 jets and options for 50 more. The deal would be valued at $5.6 billion at list prices, though airlines typically negotiate substantial discounts on such orders.
Delta says the CS100s will allow it “to cost-effectively reshape and upgauge its narrowbody fleet, providing an improved customer experience and better cost efficiency.” The planes will be deployed on “short- to medium-haul routes throughout Delta’s network.”
The airline did not specifically say which aircraft types it might replace with its new CS100s, though the deliveries will come as Delta continues its effort to phase out flying done on 50-seat regional jets.
“As we reshape our fleet for the future, the innovative onboard experience of the C Series is a perfect complement for the top-notch service provided every day by Delta people,” Ed Bastian, Delta’s incoming CEO, says in a statement.
ALSO SEE: Delta Air Lines soars higher with $1.45b profit in Q4 2015
Delta will become the first airline in the U.S. for Bombardier’s CS100, with the plane expected to enter service for the carrier beginning in the spring of 2018. Delta also will become Bombardier’s largest customer for its new C Series line of aircraft.
“Welcoming Delta Air Lines to the C Series family of operators is a watershed moment for our game-changing aircraft,” Fred Cromer, President at Bombardier Commercial Aircraft, says in a statement.
“As an industry leader, Delta consistently ranks first with customers, business leaders and its peers – a benchmark for operational performance,” Cromer adds. “This order is a resounding endorsement of the CS100 aircraft performance and its exceptionally low operating costs. In addition, its widest aisle, widest seats and largest bins in its class will be attractive features for Delta’s passengers.”
The C Series program marks Bombardier’s first foray beyond its roots as a maker of smaller jets and turboprops designed for “regional” routes. The C Series planes the CS100 and larger CS300 push Bombardier beyond that.
Delta has not said how many seats its CS100s will have, but the model is capable of handling roughly 110 passengers in a typical configuration. The larger CS300 could seat 130 to 160 passengers, depending on how densely airline customers choose to configure the jet.
However, the move to bigger aircraft could draw Bombardier into competition against a formidable set of competitors.
The size of the larger CS300 makes it a direct competitor to some versions of Boeing’s 737 and Airbus’ A319 narrow body jets. Boeing and Airbus have long dominated that segment of the market.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment