Share this on WhatsApp



EDIALE KINGSLEY peeps into the creative corridors of Delmwa Deshi  Kura. The woman that has her hands in series of classic TV shows from Moments With Mo to Jara to Basket Mouth’s Big Friday Show, wearing the hats of TV slash Film Writer, Producer and Director. Her prowess gifts her seat of the Creative Director for Discovery Communications and Chief Executive Officer of DelMedia Productions, a Lagos based TV & Film Production House, established in 2007. These corridors take us into her latest project, Duplicity. Tag along.
DELMWA spent the early years of her career honing her writing/producing and directing skills on some of the most prestigious shows to have ever graced the continent, from Moments With Mo, to Mnet Africa Magic’s Jara and 53Xtra. She wrote for one of Africa’s longest running series Tinsel, before moving to MTV BASE where she wrote, produced and directed the widely popular “Big Friday Show” with Basket Mouth.
Born on the 2nd of October 1983 in Nassarawa State in The North of Nigeria, Delmwa was raised in Jos, where she attained most of her early education, and later attended the University Of Jos where she bagged her first degree, A Comb.Hons in English Literature & Linguistics, quickly followed by a Post Graduate Diploma in Business Management, which she used to bridge her crossover into the social sciences to obtain her Masters In Business Administration from the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University.
Delmwa interned with the Nigerian Television Authority as News writer and reporter while studying for her Masters. DelMedia was founded soon afterwards, and Delmwa Produced her very first Independent Project titled Generationnext A Youth Empowerment Platform that had successful individuals from all walks of life, share success strategies with young people in a one on one conversation. The long running show was a runaway success on terrestrial Television.
The success of Generation next, and the succeeding sponsorship support from UAC provided Delmwa the capital to structure DelMedia. To broaden her business acumen, Delmwa took a year off to move to Lagos to study Enterprise Development at The Lagos Business School.
ALSO SEE: Cobhams Asuquo hosts online music show ‘The Top 12 Countdown’
The move paid off, as her young business was quickly identified to have potential for exponential growth and Delmwa was chosen as one of a handful of young business women from across developing economies around the World to be awarded The Goldmansachs Scholarship for Young Women in Business. Soon afterwards, she landed her first Production gig outside Jos, and it was with the Inspire Africa Network now better known as The Ebony life Channel. Delmwa has since consulted, and worked for some of the World’s most recognizable Media brands, including Discovery Communications, and CNN Films. Her expertise finds root in a long list of extensive trainings she has applied herself to, both locally and internationally in the preceding years.
Delmwa has trained at some of the World’s most prestigious TV & Film Institutions including The Discovery Communications Headquarters in Silver Springs, Washington. DC, and its New York office. Delmwa had the rare opportunity to Shadow a Producer on the long running multi award winning American breakfast show, Good morning America with Matt Lauer and the rest of the team at the Iconic ABC Studios in New York. She is an Alumnus of the Relativity Media School of Film Studies, and has trained, and attended mentoring seminars at the prestigious NBC Universal Studios, and has received Production Training from Senior Producers from the OWN Network.
In 2013, Delmwa won the documentary prize at Discop, Africa’s most prestigious International Film & Television Content Platform, in Johannesburg South Africa. Her show Discovery +234 has been nominated for the best Television Show category in The New York Film Festival, as well as the Nigerian Broadcasters Merit award.
Delmwa aims to play a part in building a local Industry where great work speaks for itself, and advertisers gravitate towards the deserving content. For this reason, she is wholly dedicated to only making high impact content that entertains, competes internationally, and fosters social change in Africa. Her latest creation “Duplicity The series” is a Testament to her goals and ideals.
Created, written, Produced and Co-Directed by Delmwa Deshi Kura. “Duplicity” features some of Nigeria’s brightest talents, from the Legendary Sadiq Daba, to the enigmatic Ireti Doyle and Uti Nwachukwu to name a few. The story crosses multiple generations and is laced with intrigue and power play. Duplicity premieres on Saturday the 4th of June 2016 on Africa Magic Showcase Channel 151, on DSTV.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment