By ANDREW OJIEZEL

For daring to give his support to the war against fuel hike by Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna State has threatened to expel Senator Shehu Sani for his opposition to the fuel pump price increase.

The party’s Acting Publicity Secretary, Mr Salisu Wusono, issued the threat during press
conference on Thursday in Kaduna.

“Given his disregard for the party, the APC, Kaduna State has no option but to take further disciplinary measures that may lead to his expulsion from the party.

“How can a senator who passed the 2016 budget that has no provision for subsidy turn around and attack President Buhari for implementing the decision.“

Wusono said the state APC is disappointed by the conduct of Sani, who is the Senator representing Kaduna Central.

“How can a politician with any sense of discipline or commitment to the public interest fail to see that the fuel subsidy regime is bankrupt and is no longer in the interest of our people.

“In speech and conduct, he has shown himself incapable of loyalty to our party the APC and our great leader, President Muhammadu Buhari.

ALSO SEE: Melaye threatens Buhari over fuel price hike

“Having ridden on the back of our party and the popularity of Buhari to get to the Senate, Sen. Sani has since abandoned any pretension to discipline or loyalty to any principle,“ Wusono alleged.

The Kaduna state APC spokesman claimed that the Senator now belongs to the opposition “Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) and masquerading as an APC senator.

“Since he does not have the courage to openly decamp, we will kick him out if he continues with his anti-party activity.“

He expressed the state APC’s support for Federal Government policies and urged party loyalists and the people of the state to also support the government.

“We applaud the courageous actions the federal government is taking to fight corruption and retrieve the public funds that were stolen by some Nigerians.”

			
			PV: 
			0