Share this on WhatsApp



By OKOSUN DENNIS
The wife of the Executive Governor of Lagos state, Mrs Bolanle Ambode has called on Nigerian men and women to be responsive to the challenges of marriage saying that the growing trend in domestic violence, teenage pregnancy, child marriage, drugs abuses can be checked at the family unit.
Speaking at a seminar organised by the Nigerian Navy Officers’ Wives Association (NOWA) at the NNS QUORRA, Apapa on Wednesday, as part of the activities marking the Golden Jubilee of the force, Mrs Ambode explained that such seminars that focuses on family would help marriages considering that some common abuses that causes dysfunctional marriages are traceable to the family unit.
Represented by Mrs Oladunmi Ogunbanwo, added that a stronger society can only be guaranteed with solid family. “No society grows without a solid family unity? Take a look at the social challenges in our country; are they not traceable to the family unit? It is the immorality at the family level that finds its way into the society.
“The transformation of the society can only be achieved through the transformation of the basic units that make up our family. Seminars like this would serve to remind us that we must pay greater attention to our marriages, families as well as women and men to see the areas where we need to improve to become better wives, mothers and better husbands and fathers. It will help us to inject fresh love into our marriages and relationships for stronger family units,” she reiterated.
The Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ette Ibok Ibas who was represented by the Chief of Policy and Plans, Naval Headquarters, Rear Admiral Jacob Ajani said the Nigerian Navy recognises the importance of marriage hence they have Imams and Priests to meet the spiritual needs of men noting that the institution of marriage are well entrenched in the two major religions – Christianity and Islam.
He pointed out that the religious groups help to minister to the spiritual needs of personnel, reminding them of their duties and responsibilities in marriage and help to stabilize and make them good family men and women so that they can contribute effectively to the discharge of the constitutional role of the Nigerian Navy.
ALSO SEE: Nigerian Navy intercepts over 50, 000 litres of PMS from pipeline vandals
“We place a very high premium on the man as the most important resource in whatever we do. Therefore, we have systems, procedures and programmes to develop the man not just in the discharge of his professional duty but to be a good family man so that he can have desired state of mind at home and by so doing, he is motivated to deliver his responsibility optimally which translates to operational efficiency and fitness of the Nigerian Navy.”
The wife of the Chief of Naval Staff, Mrs Theresa Ibas said marriage to military personnel is odious one but not an insurmountable task. She noted that the choice of the topic: “Marriage and family management in the Nigerian Navy,” was chosen while placing premium on building a stable home.
“There is no better way to appreciate the NN for their jobs than to build a stable and viable home noting that they make modest contributions in strengthening the home front,” she added.
One of the guest speakers, Commodore Olutunde Oladimeji (rtd) said marriage is one of the most important topics in our nation because leaders of today are products of marriage.
He reminded couples on the need to embrace seven principles of marriage which include: partnership, pleasure, procreation, parenting, purity, perpetuity and prayer explaining that no husband and wife is perfect in marriage but must be patient, and learn more about tongue management in order not to regret in future.
Advising couples on the stages of marriage, he added that they must remember their “morning”, “afternoon” that would ultimately galvanise into a successful “evening” of their marriage.
Dignitaries that attended the one-day seminar include the Flag Officers Commanding, (FOC) Western Naval Command (NWC) and Naval Training Command (NAVTRAC) Rear Admirals Ferguson Bobai and Okojie; the wife of the Mayor of Johannesburg, South Africa, wives of the Inspector General of Police, Mrs Arase, the Chief of Defence Staff, Mrs Olonisakin, and other retired former naval chiefs, and other speakers.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment