https://gaim.fidelitybank.ng/


Share this on WhatsApp
The operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of Lagos State Police Command have arrested 59 suspected social miscreants during a raid on criminal hideouts and black spots in the State over the weekend.
It was learnt that the raid was part of routine exercise of the RRS on suspected black spots in the state to check criminal activities as well as restore orderliness in crime and violence prone areas.
It was further gathered that the suspected criminals were picked up between the hours 12am and 2am at Oshodi, Ojota, Oregun, Mile 12, LASU/Iyana – Iba junction and Mile 2 after repeated surveillance of those areas by the RRS Intelligence Teams.
Confirming the arrest of the suspects, the State Police Public Relation Officer, Deputy Superintendent of Police, DSP Damasus Ozoani, said the Police authorities would leave no stone unturned to sanitize Lagos from the menace of social miscreants.
ALSO SEE: Police lost N1.9bn through court orders — IGP
He explained that some of the raided points were place where members of the public volunteered information as crime spots and have been confirmed to be black spots by the Police, who monitored the areas days before the raiding took place.
“Out of 59 suspects picked up from various parts of the metropolis from the raiding, 46 were released to their relatives after thorough screening by a team of RRS investigators.
Among them were 13 suspects, whom the investigators confirmed were drug addicts, pickpockets and with questionable means of livelihood and they have been sent to the State Environmental Taskforce for prosecution.
In another development, the outfit is currently questioning two suspected cultists, who were arrested along with 12 other suspects raided in Oregun.
The suspected cultists; David Seun (17) and Ahmed Sulaiman (17) have confessed to be members of a 12 – man cultist gang terrorizing Oregun and Olusosun.
David, a Taylor by profession, stated that he was forced to join the cult gang by his friend, Sadiq. “He invited me and I was initiated in Oregun High School, Oregun. Kehinde is the leader of the cult group “Eiye”. He lives in Ikorodu but I don’t know his house.
He explained further, “He comes to our meetings occasionally. It has been long since I saw him. The group took all I had on me the day I was initiated. They took my money, N6000, my phone, wrist watch and my shoes. We meet at Ita Egbe in Oregun.”
Confessing other members of Eiye cult group at Oregun, David named Ayo, Eyo, Bobo Olusosun, Last Born, Don Banny, Elewedu, Two Yansh, Pepper, Little 9 and Akube as members and they meet at7:00 p.m.”
On his part, Ahmed Sulaiman, an orphan, who was on apprenticeship under David, said he was forced to join the group by his boss, David.
It was gathered that the police are on the trail of other members of the cult gang who lives at Oregun and its environs with a view to apprehending them.
Share this on WhatsApp