Share this on WhatsApp



 
Amina Mohammed, the minister of environment, has been named one of the world’s greatest leaders by Fortune Magazine. Leadership reports that the 2016 list, which contains 50 outstanding personalities who have distinguished themselves in their areas of endeavours, was released on Thursday, May 19.
The annual list of World Greatest Leaders includes men and women, who have made impacts in business, government, philanthropy and the arts, and all over the globe. These people are transforming the world and inspiring others to do the same. Fortune Magazine is a multinational business publication, published by Time Inc. and headquartered in New York, the USA.
The magazine, which was founded in 1929, is best known for the “Fortune 500,” a ranking of companies by revenue that it has published annually since 1955. The list of World Greatest Leaders includes 50 outstanding individuals, among which Amina Mohammed is the only Nigerian; she occupies the 39th position.
ALSO SEE: Prince: Siblings to late singer fight over his money
“As special adviser on post-2015 development planning to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Mohammed had to rally 193 countries to endorse the same objectives for the next 15 years. Acting as the point person for the Sustainable Development Goals, she helped bridge the divide between developing countries and First World nations, and by September all member states signed on to 17 goals related to wiping out poverty and tackling climate change. Now Nigeria’s Environment Minister, Mohammed is trying to make renewables a bigger factor in the oil-producing country’s energy strategy.”
The first five places in the list are occupied by the 52-year-old CEO of Amazon, Jeff Bezos, Angela Merkel, the chancellor of Germany, Aung San Suu Kyi, a Burmese social democratic stateswoman, Pope Francis, and Tim Cook, CEO of Apple. It would be recalled that a few months ago, Amina Mohammed received a recognition from American magazine Vogue. She was among the 13 women photographed by the fashion and lifestyle magazine for a feature story on the role of women in the ongoing UN climate change conference.
Source: Naij
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment