Share this on WhatsApp



By EDIALE KINGSLEY
DUPLICITY is an enthralling tale of love and sibling rivalry gone wrong. The central point of the story revolves around a set of twin girls (Ufuoma McDermott)who are raised in a very loving close-knit family, but then drift into polar opposite characters years later as they mature into their late teens and twenties. They were raised by a politically driven, powerful father (Sadiq Daba) and an entitled overindulged rich wife (Ireti Doyle). The table’s turn for the twins when tragedy hits and their loyalty to their parents, and ultimately to one another, is tested.
The series also stars Uti Nwachukwu, Bucci Franklin, Uru Eke, Tony Monjaro, Aisha Shaba, Jide Kosoko, Femi Branch and Stanly Chibunna (Funny Bone) amongst others, with guest appearances from veteran standup comedian AliBaba, Nike Davies-Okundaye of Nike Arts gallery, Cool FM’s OAP, Manny Essien and Chef Eros of Cookie Jar.
The television series was created and produced by Delmwa Deshi Kura, Creative Director for Discovery Communications in Nigeria, and Chief Executive Officer of DelMedia Productions, a Lagos based TV & Film Production House. She is the winner of the documentary prize at Discop, Africa’s most prestigious International Film & Television Content Platform in South Africa, and the producer of the Discovery +234 show which has been nominated for the best Television Show category in The New York Film Festival, as well as the Nigerian Broadcasters Merit award.
ALSO SEE: Jackson family to set up music academy in Lagos
The show was directed by experienced Multi-Cam Director and Producer, George Sunom Kura who has served in different capacities, in numerous international productions. He has worked as technical director on many award-winning shows including Mnet’s Tinsel, Highlites with IK, Discovery Channel’s Discovery +234, I Dey Vex TV Show and Bridges Drama series.
Duplicity was shot on location in the beautiful metropolitan city of Lagos between October and November 2015.
Award winning actress and best actress nominee at the Monte Carlo Television festival, Ufuoma Ejenobor McDermott plays the role of the twins, Zeinom Cameron-Cole and Meinom Cameron Cole. Zeinom, the very focused career driven earner, is in a stable relationship with James Dimka, a character played by Tinsel, Lekki wives and Gidi-Up star, Anthony Monjaro.
Together they seem to be happy and making clear plans for the future. Meinom, on the other hand, is the couch potato who is neck deep in all vices known to man, in and out of rehab, is school drop out and likes to hang out with the wrong crowd. Their parents, Chief Adewale and Lady Adyln Cameron-Cole try to no avail to mold Meinom into a responsible young woman like her sister, constantly comparing her to Zeinom in the process. This creates an air of bitterness and strong competition between the two sisters, and Meinom begins to covet the life and relationship of her sibling.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment