CHRIST Embassy, Lagos, this weekend, lightens the city with the hilarious Total Experience, a spiritual ministration for the redemption of souls for the Lord and expanding the frontiers of the work of God.
The programme will be taking place at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Recourse, Lagos, this Friday, beginning from 7.00pm till dawn.
There will be music ministration by Joe Praise, Ada, Eben and other anointed singers.
In a special invitation earlier sent out to members of the Church, the esteemed Zonal Director, Pastor Deola Philips, stated: in this second quarter of the year, “I am very delighted to inform you of our upcoming city wide crusade tagged, Total Experience!”
She added: “All around the world, there are perilous times; men and nations are distressed and perplexed. People are in search of hope and solution. Jesus said in John 16: 33; “…..In the world you will have tribulations but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world”. Christ Jesus has brought peace, joy and hope to all that believe in Him and this is the message of Total Experience 2016.”
She continued: “Total Experience is an all night meeting designed by the Holy Spirit to deliver to men, the purpose of God, His plans and prosperity for their lives. It’s a night of prayers, faith and victory as we gather in the name of Jesus to enjoy times of refreshing from the Lord. The Bible says, “….in thy presence is fullness of joy, and at your right hand, there are pleasures forever more.” (Psalm 16; 11)
ALSO SEE: Christ Embassy revs up publicity for Total Experience Lagos
“Total Experience will be a time of upliftment and promotion for us as we enjoy moments of praise and worship, inspired presentations, the transforming power of the word and most of all, the tangible presence of God with healings, miracles, signs and wonders following.”
“It’s a night of unspeakable joy and limitless possibilities for all who would attend,” She assured.
This is one event Lagos residents have been looking forward to encounter in an atmosphere of excitement.
“My expectation is to see many turned to the light of our Lord Jesus Christ and be Churched,” Dcn Olayinka Segun-Adebowale had said; while Dcn Olufunke Oke also said: “I believe that during this programme, the Lord will grant me the desires of my heart.”
During the publicity, www.chrstembassytotalexperience.com was opened for prospective attendees to make seat reservations, share expectations, invite friends and family, make enquiries about transportation arrangements for the programme from different parts of the Lagos metropolis make prayer requests.
The Church has directed that on the site, anybody can share testimonies from the previous programme. It is a website that is interactive and has practically all answers to questions about the programme. This is available in its Frequently Asked Questions category on the website.
Special arrangements had been made for transportation to the venue from all parts of the state. The popular BRT buses used for mass transportation in Lagos have been assigned to designated locations to convey people to TBS at no cost. They have been branded beautifully with the banner design of the programme.
Various Social Media platforms have also been opened to widen interactions in the congregation. The platforms include but not limited to the KingsChat fastest growing social networking solution from Africa to the rest of the world; Yookos, Ceflix, Facebook, YouTube and Whatsapp.

			
			Post Views: 
			71