By KINGSLEY CHUKWUKA, Jos
FORMER Governor of Plateau State, Senator Jonah Jang, has said that the State Congress and Ward elections conducted recently by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State are indications that the PDP is still the greatest party in Africa, saying that regaining power in 2019 cannot be negotiated with the impressive conduct of the congresses.
Expressing satisfaction with the way party officials comported themselves during the congresses, Jang renewed optimism that Plateau will return to its ‘first love’ as PDP was birth in Plateau.
His words: “Plateau state is the home of PDP and now that we have new executive members that are grassroots politicians who are always in touch with their grassroots supporters, victory is certain”, he said.
Recall that the PDP has just conducted its congresses nationwide to produce the party’s leadership at all levels in order to prepare for the 2019 elections.
Emerging as the new Chairman of the State PDP, Hon. Damishi Sango, a former Minister of Youth and Sport, gave his fellow contestants miles in the votes counted after the election.
From the official votes announced, Sango scored 758, while his closest rival, Hon Bitrus B. Kaze, scored 222 votes.
ALSO SEE: I will rather quit politics than join PDP — Nyerere
With this political development, Pundits are of the opinion that, a strong opposition to the All Progressive Congress (APC) led government in the state is awoken to give a proper analysis of the political activities and economic situation of the country which will put the APC policies in a contentious perspective. However, Sango, the new State Chairman, in his acceptance speech, stated that Plateau State is wearing a strange garment in the current political dispensation.
He said that the APC in Plateau has no business occupying the Government House in Jos, reiterating that Plateau State is the home of PDP.
Also speaking with National Daily, Senator Beni Lar, expressed confidence in the ability of the new Exco of the party in moving the structure of the party to the next level. Lar, appealed to those who left PDP to come back and build the party rather than staying away and allowing others to benefit from it.
She said she is proud to be among the family of a great party, stating that the peaceful manner in which the congress was conducted shows that PDP is not in a hurry to exit from the political threshold of the country contrary to the insinuation of their political opponent.
However, Lar dismissed the allegation that Jang imposed Damishi Sango as the new Chairman of the party, stating that the election was free and fair.

			
			Post Views: 
			289