Share this on WhatsApp
By OKOSUN DENNIS
Following the rescue of Amina Ali by a combined military and civilian JTFon Wednesday in Damboa in Maiduguri, President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday offered Amina scholarship with the promise that the Federal Government would be responsible for her education and upkeep.
Amina Ali is one of the over two hundred girls abducted by Boko Haram insurgents at the Chibok Secondary School in April 14, 2014 and larger numbers of them are still being held incommunicado.
The President met with Amina, her mother and the Governor of Borno state, Shettima Kassim, at the Presidential Villa in Abuja.
The president assured that the Federal Government would do everything possible to ensure that Amina does not suffer any discomfort noting that the best of medical assistance, psychological and emotional care will be given to her to be fully reintegrated into the society.
ALSO SEE: Chibok girls: Rescue of Amina Ali Nkeki proves Obasanjo wrong
He decried the truncation of her education by Boko Haram insurgents saying that the government would do everything possible to take care of her education.
The 19-year-old Amina, who is now nursing mother to a four month old baby was rescued by Civilian JTF with a suspected terrorist, Mohammed Hayatu, who claims to be her forced husband.
Amina had on Wednesday disclosed that six girls of the abducted Chibok girls have died in captivity. The Army spokesperson, Col Usman also added that the military authorities were investigating Mohammed.
Although it has not be independently verified, it was gathered that Mohammed, one of Boko Haram Commanders, who was also called “Amir” was said to have escaped with his abducted wife from the Sambisa Forest before surrendering to Civilian Joint Task Force members in Balle, a village in Damboa.
The hunger was intensified following military blockage of supplies to the insurgents would have been restrained to the fringes while bombardment continues to obliterates them.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment