Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
A Lagos legislator Hon.Nurudeen Solaja-Saka laments the little or lack of security in Ibeshe  area of Ikorodu, urging the Federal Government to ensure more police presence in the said area, to stem the tide of incessant killings of innocent residents by unknown assailants.
Solaja representing Ikorodu II constituency at the Lagos State House of Assembly made the plea, while recounting the gory tale of a recent murder of a whole family in the area as well as the injury suffered by victims’ neighbour.
According to him, residents of the area need police presence to mount surveillance on the area to forestall further loss of lives.
“The security threats in Ibeshe is on regular basis, there is hardly any months without innocent people losing their lives and this is as a result of less presence of police.
“We need more police presence in Ibeshe area of Igbogbo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Ikorodu.
“The place is a developing area with not less than 100, 000 residents and there are lot of incomplete structures abetting the activities of criminals, ritualists and cultists..
“Sincerely, we need a big police station in that place. We are calling on the governor as well as the federal government to come to our aids. People are dying. There are some hoodlums tormenting the people.
“Just last week, some miscreants killed a pregnant woman, her husband and their daughter while some others were injured,” he said.
The lawmaker said that the only police post in the area was located at Nichemtex Police Post, Ibeshe, which was basically influenced by the textile company’s management to provide adequate security of  workers of the textile industry.
According to him, Ebute Ipakodo Police Station in Ikorodu remains the only police station in the area as large as the community is.
The lawmaker also urged the residents to be security conscious, adding that miscreants were not spirits but reside among the people.
“This miscreants are not spirits, the Community Development Association (CDA) and Community Development Committee (CDC) should wake up and support efforts geared towards ensuring security in the area.
“We cannot continue to lose people and allow our people to live in fear. The traditional rulers and religious leader should do their job also.
At a recent security meeting in the area, the lawmaker at the Federal House of Reps Hon. Jimi Benson and myself made available on demand by constituents, motor bikes for local vigilante groups to comb the area.
“All parents should watch over their children, they should not live everything in the hands of the government. Government cannot do it alone.”
It will be recalled that there have been cases of ritual killings,raping of single mothers and wives by a ritualist gang known as ‘Badoo’ and kidnappings in the Ibeshe community in the recent times.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment