Share this on WhatsApp

Call for El- Zakzaky’s prosecution




By Lanre Adesanya
The protest on the activities of the Islamic group, Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), in Nigeria has been echoed amplified by more voices, as the Nigerians in Diaspora joins the fray expressing their condemnation over the inability of the federal government to clamp down on the group.
The group which held a protest in this regard at the United Nations Building and Nigeria House, New York City, yesterday, have also called on the government to speedily prosecute the arrested leader of the group, Mr Ibraheem El-Zakzaky.
The group led by its spokesperson, Cosmas Collins warned that the IMN like Boko Haram may escalate into a full blown terrorist group if ignored. According to them, if the mistake of also pampering the movement is repeated by not prosecuting members of the Islamic IMN for their acts of violence against the state and against citizens of Nigeria then the nation may be on the verge of nurturing another full blown terrorist organisation.
Warning further, they said, “The group’s members have mirrored every single crime committed by Boko Haram in its formative years yet nothing significant have been done to put its members on trial for breaching the peace in manners that resulted in the loss of life.
While condemning the actions of the Movement, the diasporans also called for te prosecution of the movement’s leader,Mr. Zakzaky who has since been in detention as according to them, this silence might act as encouragement for the extremists.
“…It may also not be a mistake, in which case the delay in prosecuting detained IMN leaders could be a silent plea for international backing by the Nigerian government. It is important the world is able to reassure the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that they have the world’s support for nipping the growing terror of IMN in the bud.
A clear message must be sent to the government that the firmness with which it deals with the IMN threat is a matter global interest as any fallout from delay in dealing with the threat posed by the group will affect the whole world”. They warned.
They claimed further that failure to prosecute these people, including El-Zakyzaky is making other groups think of coming out because it is now believed that it is fashionable to take on the state without consequences.  Therefore encouraged the government to consider bringing charges of subversion against members of the group for inviting Iranian intervention in Nigeria’s internal affairs, adding that the government should investigate the finances of the group and its senior members to see if they have been beneficiary of Iranian sponsorship of terrorism.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment