Share this on WhatsApp



PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari, has indicated his interest to open the 2016 International Trade Fair, organized Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI).
The theme of 2016 fair, taking place at the usual Tafawa Balewa Square, from November 4, 2016, is having the theme “Positioning the Nigerian economy for diversification and sustainable growth”, would explore management mechanics of achieving sustainable growth in the pursuit of diversification.
The Chairman, Trade Promotion Board, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mr. Sola Oyetayo, at a briefing in Ikeja, said the recession may not affect participation in the fair.
He noted that over 500,000 attendants, 2,000 exhibitors from 22 states and 200 foreign ones were expected from 15 countries including China, Japan, India, Indonesia, Ghana, Egypt and South Africa, among others.
Oyetayo said the fair would focus on all sectors of the economy through promotion of partnerships and critical interventions. He added that the fair would foster trading engagements and enable exchange of innovations and ideas.
It will hold at the Tafawa Balewa Square, while the Corporate Business Exhibition and Creative Industry Exhibition would be taking place at the Eko Hotels & Suites, Lagos.
Besides regular activities, Oyetayo said a platform had been carved out for secondary school students across Lagos State to compete in an essay writing competition to mark its 30th anniversary.
“Interestingly, the need to encourage the interest of our children in economic issues cannot be over-emphasised. Our 30th anniversary also features essay writing by secondary school students to evaluate their knowledge and deepen their understanding.
“In addition, we are hosting an international investment conference to create a platform for local and foreign investors to rub minds on how to truly make their investments sustainable in the different sectors that will be discusse.”
On how to set the economy on the recovery path, Oyetayo said sale of national assets may not mitigate the brunt of the recession, adding that the government needed to adopt a solution- based response. He, however, pledged that the chamber would be relentless in prompting the government on possible solutions
He stated that “This fair will open a window of opportunities to take advantage of the current situation in the economy to take action.
“This is not the time to pass blames on anyone but to take up responsibility and contribute our quota to the growth of the economy”.
He said that the economy had been diversified to a certain level, with the new awareness on patronage of made-in-Nigeria goods and services, but added that more work needed to be done.
“This fair will attract more foreign investors because there is a lot of interest in the country, as the economic diversification efforts increase. “There will be over 500,000 visitors from all over the world, and so many SMEs will grow to multinationals through this year’s fair.
“This is because the array of opportunities will come from products where we have comparative advantage.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment