Share this on WhatsApp



 
Are you young and in search of the opportunity to gain first-hand experience in the business world? Then, the #FCMBFlexxtern contest is just for you!
An initiative of leading Nigerian bank First City Monument Bank (FCMB), the #FCMBFlexxtern is designed to give young Nigerians between the ages of 16-25 years an opportunity to get a 3-month internship with FCMB or one of the organizations partnering with the bank on this initiative.
The #FCMBFlexxtern is an online contest which is being held on the Flexxzone, the exclusive microsite built around FCMB’s Flexx proposition and which aims to provide relevant content to the Flexx target audience on a wide range of areas, including fashion, lifestyle, entrepreneurship and much more.
Participants are required to upload a 45-second video to their YouTube channel with the hashtag #FCMBFlexxtern, explaining why they should be the next Flexxtern, then visit website http://on.fcmb.com/Flexxtern-1 ‎to submit a link of their video.  Public votes account for 40% of the rating, so all contestants are encouraged to invite their friends to vote for them – the more votes your entry receives, the higher your chances of winning! Entry submission to the #FCMBFlexxtern closes on Monday, October 24, 2016.
Speaking about the #FCMBFlexxtern contest, Divisional Head of Retail Banking, Mr. Olu Akanmu highlighted that the contest is designed to help young Nigerians acquire skills needed to kick-start careers in diverse sectors of the economy. According ‎to him, “Our youth proposition is centred around 3 key pillars – Fun, Future and Banking. The #FCMBFlexxtern contest aligns with the Future pillar and is an important way through which Flexxers can gain real-life work experience through a 3-month internship in some of Nigeria’s leading organizations. We hear so many comments about Nigerian graduates being “unemployable”. However, as a Bank, we believe that with the right kind of support, encouragement and exposure, our youth have all it takes to make a difference in business, enterprise and the corporate world. That’s why we take youth empowerment very seriously.”
Also commenting on the #FCMBFlexxtern initiative, the Group Head Corporate Affairs of FCMB Mr. Diran Olojo reiterated FCMB’s strategic focus on helping its customers achieve their dreams. According to him “What we are doing for youths is the same as what we do for all our customers – giving them the support they need to make their dreams a reality. The #FCMBFlexxtern contest is in line with our focus as a bank and will give these youths the much needed experience of life in the business world. The value of this initiative cannot be quantified in monetary terms. We are happy to champion this cause and provide Nigerian youths viable opportunities to succeed in business and enterprise”.
FCMB’s Flexx proposition is targeted at young people who are actively seeking platforms which allow them to express their uniqueness, while building skills for financial success. A youth-centric banking product, Flexx is designed to meet the overall financial needs of young people within the age range of 18 and 25 years, where and how they want those needs met. This is summarized in the description of Flexx as “An app. A card. An account”, which gives account holders the freedom to bank on the go using the Flexx Mobile App, as well as access relevant lifestyle and skills-building content.
In addition, with their Flexx card, they can conveniently withdraw cash, make payments online and on Point-of-Sale machines and access exclusive discounts and freebies from Flexx partners. This interesting departure from the common market offering gives the account holder full access to “flexx” (a popular expression which means to “show off”) and the opportunity to express a lifestyle that will be the envy of their peers who do not have Flexx accounts.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment