Share this on WhatsApp



Babatunde Omidina, aka, Baba Sala, a reknowned Nollywood actor is critically ill and can hardly talk. In another twist, Nollywood movie director, Yomi Fabiyi, has blamed the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), for veteran comic actor, Baba Suwe’s poor health.
Fabiyi, in a post shared on his Instagram page today, October 5, 2016, called on his colleagues in the movie industry to come to Baba Suwe’s aid.
The movie director wrote, “On BABA SUWE: I am calling on all senior colleagues in the entertainment world especially those close to Baba Suwe cos I don’t have everyone’s contact to please reachout to him asap. The torture done on him by NDLEA is vastly damaging his health at an alarming rate. He told me he no longer feel comfortable since that episode. Baba Suwe is a widower, he can hardly walk properly as I speak, let alone go to film. How will he feed and take care of the children aunty Moladun left behind?”
ALSO SEE: Mi Casa promises to thrill this October
“This is an A-List Entertainer and this conspiracy of silence gives me MENTAL AGONY on my part, I don’t want to speak when it may be too late, I won’t forgive myself. He told me when I visited him that he is innocent of the accusations and yet a LONG PIPE was inserted through his anus, he was detained for too long amongst other things just because he was randomly suspected like every normal person. In my opinion, only lazy, ill-trained, unfit and uncivilised officers torture people in the name of investigation. Torture is criminal and sinful. If this accusation is found to be true by independent investigators, it shouldn’t go unpunished.”
“The court asked NDLEA to pay him 25million for damages which is yet to be obeyed but to me an OPEN APOLOGY will placate him and illustrate some dignified and civil approach from a government agency that made him go through all that without coming up with a single proof after that prolonged detention and drama. He who assert MUST prove! NDLEA needs to restore public confidence by doing the needful on this matter. And until individuals and government agency begin to respect fundamental HUMAN RIGHT and enhance duty of care, the essence of Nigeria’s FREEDOM is far from being realistic. No malice is intended against NDLEA with this outcry, I just hope the leadership see this as a clarion call for getting it right and save the agency from sending an innocent person to an early grave whereby leaving his children to suffer unjustly. My humble take. Thank you.  #JUSTICEFORBABASUWE #SAVEBABASUWE #SAYNOTOTORTURE”
It will be recalled that in 2011, Baba Suwe was arrested by the NDLEA at the Murtala Mohammed Airport on the suspicion of carrying cocaine in his stomach.
After three weeks of detention, a Lagos High Court ordered NDLEA to pay the sum of N25 million for unlawfully detaining him and also tender a public apology to him, both of which was not done.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment