Share this on WhatsApp



Nigerian Senate has confirmed the appointment of Justice Ejembi Eko and Justice Amina Augie as Justices of the Supreme Court.
The confirmation of the Justices followed the consideration of the report of its committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, which urged the Senate to go ahead with the confirmation.
In confirming the appointments, the 8th Senate employed the electronic voting system for the first time since its inauguration in June 2015.
The last time the electronic voting system was employed by the Senate was in 2014 during the 7th Senate under the Presidency of Sen. David Mark.
The Senate then used the electronic system to vote during the Constitution review of 2014.
At plenary, 38 senators supported the appointment of Eko while 39 senators supported Augie’s appointment while one senator did not vote for either of the two.
Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu who presided over plenary commended the two justices and charged them to uphold and defend the tenets of their calling.
Meanwhile, the Senate commenced the screening of six Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) who were directed to appear before its committee on Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
The Senate while considering executive communications agreed to begin the consideration of the nomination of the six commissioners for appointment.
They are Prof. Okechukwu Ibeanu (Anambra), May Agbamuche-Mbu (Delta), AVM Ahmed Mu’Azu (Gombe), Mohammed Haruna (Niger), Dr Adekunle Ogunmola (Oyo) and Abubakar Nahuche (Zamfara).
The Senate also considered the request by President Muhammadu Buhari for the confirmation of five commissioners for the National Population Commission (NPC).
They also include Engr. Benedict Ukpong (Akwa Ibom), Gloria Izonfuo (Bayelsa), Barr. Kupchi Iyanya, Dr Haliru Bala (Kebbi) and Dr Eyitayo Oyetunji.
The commissioners-designate are to appear before the Senate Committee on National Population.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment