Share this on WhatsApp



Nigeria and other member-states of the African Union over the weekend resolved to secure the seas and oceans in the region, according to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.
“All of the economic activities that take place around the Seas and Oceans are jeopardized, if security is not assured.”
Osinbajo made this statement while representing president Muhammadu Buhari at the  African Charter on Maritime Security, Safety and Development in Lome, Togo.
The Vice President said that “the blue economy is one of the major areas of focus of the charter,” adding that without security, the blue economy-reference for the huge economic activities and benefits derivable from around the waters-is jeopardized especially by such maritime crimes like piracy and smuggling.
“And that is one of the reasons that this Charter is devoted to ensuring security,” Osinbajo noted at the meeting where about 35 African leaders gathered in a one-day summit.
Speaking with reporters at the end of the summit, the Vice President noted for instance that the Gulf of Guinea and the Horn of Africa in particular “are areas where there had been a lot of piracy and in our case the Delta.”
He explained that this is why Nigeria and other AU nations are devoted to the question of security of the oceans.
“The most important thing for us is that we are working with other member-states of the AU to ensure we are able to police the seas and our waters. To ensure that we are able to yield the maximum benefits from the blue economy and that is really why we are here, and so focused on this,” according to Vice President Osinbajo.
Continuing, he said the focus on the maritime issue is because “as we know 90% of African trade is by the Seas, so no matter how we slice it, this is absolutely important to us.”
“By signing the charter, African leaders intend to improve security off the coasts, and hope to inspire greater, coordinated economic activities and development.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment