Share this on WhatsApp



THE leadership of All Progressives Congress is set to wield the big stick against some of its members who worked as internal collaborators against the emergence of Edo state governor-elect, Godwin Obaseki during last Wednesday governorship election in the state.
Already, the party has embarked on debriefing of its party Agents and collation of useful materials that would assist the investigative panel which is yet to be named.
Edo state chairman of APC, Anselm Ojezua, dropped the hint yesterday at an interactive session with newsmen in Benin City, the state Capital.
He noted that the alleged sabotage was not serious enough to make the party suffer defeat in the election.
Ojezua, said the parties involved in the act would be given right to fair hearing in line with the APC Constitution and there will be no sacred cows irrespective of the status of the individuals or positions in the party.
“We are yet collating our materials. We are also debriefing our Agents and party members. It is at the end of that proccess that all the facts will come out. Then of course, you know in whatever we do, we also see this as an opportunity for people to do witch-hunting because you know very soon people will begin to lobby for positions.
ALSO SEE: INEC worried APC, PDP bribed voters in Edo election
“So, people who feel that others will threaten their aspirations can come and start telling you storied about others. So, all these things must be put in place. When we get the information, they must be processed and there is the fundamental rules which say, all parties must be given a fair hearing. We have the rules in our party Constitution to ensure that the right thing is done.
He also said APC has formally written a protest letter to relevant authorities demanding an investigation into the alleged deployment of military personnel at the instance of a serving Military Officer who allegedly defiled the rules of engagement to harass and intimidate eligible voters in Edo Central senatorial district in Edo state.
The move was to compromise the electoral proccess and serve the purpose of Peoples Democratic Party whose misadventure was born-out of over ambition to secure victory through hook or crook.
“Generally speaking, I will say the security agencies acquainted themselves well. But, in a lot of places, they allowed themselves to be used by politicians. In my area, the APC had to contend with PDP and security agencies including the Army.
He however ruled out the call for a unity government of Godwin Obaseki, but, admitted that the level of vigilance and patriotism of members accounted for the victory of the APC at the just concluded poll.
“So, the circumstances at that time, necessitated Adams Oshiomhole to make unusual concessions to the detriment of his own party, but for survival of his government. Godwin Obaseki does not have that kind of burden, hence perhaps made him to make such a statement.
“Remember, as at that time, PDP brought three Commissioners specifically from Edo Central senatorial district because of the influence of Chief Tony Anenih who was able to reign in his members”, he said.
Angya also stated that AFRAC events usually attract Development Partners and provide sessions for interaction and presentations on matters of relevance to intra trade within Africa and the global market.
According to Angya, these identified partners (WTO, PTB, ARAC, and APLAC) among others have added value to Africa’s economic development
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment