Share this on WhatsApp



By KINGSLEY CHUKWUKA, Jos
IN order to fast track response time to crime the Nigerian Army has launched the use of motorcycles to end insurgency in some troubled parts of the country.
It was gathered that the aim of the motorbike was to ensure that troops are able to respond on time to crime scene and make it possible to get to all nooks and crannies in volatile areas on time.
Receiving the motorbikes in Jos, the Commander Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Major General Nicholas Rogers, said that the motorbikes were coming under its new campaign tagged, “Operation Motorcycle Battalion”, to enable soldiers get to areas that are not motorable in the hinterlands.
In his words: “The launch of Operation Motorcycle Battalion is as a result of the fight against insurgents and the essence is to reach areas where vehicles cannot get to and other areas where we have challenges on foot patrol.
“This time around, the motorbike has the capacity to move faster to the interior to meet up with the challenges of insecurity in the hinterlands where movement of motor vehicles are restricted”.
The OPSH boss further explained that the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai and Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, support the re-strategizing efforts and have mobilised resources to saturate various troubled parts of the country with motorbikes.
Launched in Ryiom Local Government of Plateau State, it was learnt that they would be deployed to Barkin-ladi, Mangu, Wase and Ryiom LGA; and other flash points with terrible terrain.
Gen Rogers added that Ryiom was strategic for the launch considering that it has witnessed various criminal activities – cattle rustling, armed robbery, communal clashed in recent times.
In another development, the STF has strengthened its relationship with the Nigerian Prisons aimed at boosting security within the state by visiting the Nigerian Prisons.
He said the visit was necessary to enable both forces collaborate and fashion out ways to surmount insecurity within their areas of operations.
While at the dog section, Rogers said the dogs would go a long way in detecting drugs, illegal weapons and other vices. “They can be used to gather more intelligence and make arrests”, he reiterated.
The Comptroller of Prisons, Plateau State, Mr. Noel Ailewon, said the visit was timely as it was coming at the time when he was resuming office as the Comptroller in the state.
He revealed that out of the 973 inmates, 28 are lifer, 283 are convicted, 444 are awaiting trial, and 217 are condemned criminals.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment