Share this on WhatsApp



Wema Bank Plc. joined other service organizations world-wide in celebrating the 2016 International Customer Service Week.  The bank kicked off the celebration at one of its newly remodeled branches at Admiralty Road, Lekki, Lagos where the Managing Director, Segun Oloketuyi joined some staff and customers for a health and fitness walk.
“At Wema Bank, fulfilling customer experience has; over the years, remained the focal point of our business strategy. Indeed, it is the only way we seek to differentiate ourselves in the market place. Our brand is built essentially by meeting and surpassing the expectations of our customers – every time, everywhere and with every contact,” said Mr. Oloketuyi.
To further underscore the bank’s passion for delivering superior customer experience and in pursuance of its newly acquired national banking license, Wema Bank recently commenced the implementation of a brand transformation initiative focused on a phased branch network expansion and upgrade, as well as service delivery driven by innovation and technology. The Admiralty road, Lekki branch is one of the pilot branches showcasing the new face of Wema Bank.
According the bank’s Head of Brand and Marketing Communication, Mr. Charles Udoh, “Our resolve to be a part of the annual international customers’ service week is a manifestation of our commitment to sustaining and ultimately surpassing our individual and collective abilities to delight our customers. Indeed, our ultimate goal is to build a brand that is a reference point in offering innovative customer experience driven by technology”.
Customer Service Week is an annual international event devoted to recognizing the importance of customer service and honoring the people who serve and support customers with the highest degree of care and professionalism. This year’s event held from October 3 to 7
With a branch network of over 136 branches and service centres backed by a robust ICT platform across Nigeria, Wema bank is constantly upgrading its physical footprints and service offerings. The bank recently pioneered the introduction of card control in the Nigerian Market.  With this ground breaking innovation, Wema Bank Debit, Credit and Prepaid Cards holders can enable or disable their cards on-line real-time, anywhere, via the WemaMobile Banking or SMS Banking Suites.  The bank’s bouquet innovative service offerings also include *945# USSD Banking suite which allows customers to carry out banking transactions without mobile data, internet connection and hardware token.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment