Share this on WhatsApp



By OKOSUN DENNIS
The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Isidore Edet, on Sunday warned officers against examination malpractices.
The GOC gave the warning to officers sitting for Captain to Major pratical promotional examination at 192 Battallion in Owode Yewa, Ogun State.
“Your generation is a generation of technology and this has always been used for cheating. I will never condone any form of cheating. If you pass, pass honourably and if you fail, fail honourably with integrity.
“As an officer, you still have another chance if you fail but if you feel you can cheat during examination, I will not have any room for that so you will be shown the way out.
“I will write a report about you and recommend that you leave the system because if you are a cheat, you have no integrity and you cannot aspire to grow up to be a general,“ he said.
Edet said that he would frown against any officers being bullied by the directing staff, adding that it could  affect candidates psychologically which might lead to their failure. I do not expect that any officer seated here should be bullied by any directing staff because am not a part of bullying.
“I expect the directing staff to guide the officers because you have been selected based on your integrity and so you should be fair to these candidates. I will not tolerate or want to hear any issue of an officer being witch hunted or a scape goat for whatever reason,” he reiterated.
He further explained that the promotion was very important as it would “test your capacity to be able to interprete and translate your commander’s intentions and concept of operations.
“So this exam is to access you on these basic things that is expected of you as a tactical level commander and how you can apply it to the real world that is the battlefield,” he said.
The President of the examination panel, Brig Gen. Peter Dauke, said that the performance of the candidates in the exam would determine their progress in the Nigerian army.
“I advise you to treat the exam with all the seriousness and determination it deserves.
129 Captains drawn from various formations are participating in the exams as those successful would be promoted to the rank of majors noting that those who will succeed should not be obtained through fraudulent means.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment