Share this on WhatsApp



By OKOSUN DENNIS
A 28-year-old, Dada Azeez, has been arrested by operatives of Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of Lagos State Police Command in Agege for abducting a 15-year-old girl and raped her mercilessly.
The suspect, a tricycle operator, was said to have abducted Ibukun (not real name) on October 5 while on errand for her aunt in Agege area until she was rescued on October 21th, 2016 where she was held incommunicado in Agege, a Lagos suburbs.
Mrs Gbemisola, the sister of the victim disclosed that the girl was abducted with the sum of N58,000:00 on her meant for  her thrift contribution.
Soon after he abducted the girl, the suspect started lodging from one location to the other to evade arrest until he was nabbed by operatives of RRS at his residence No: 7, Oseni Street, Danjuma Cinema area, Agege with the girl in his one room apartment.
Azeez, who has admitted to committing the crime disclosed that he actually wooed the girl when she was 14 years old at her sister’ shop in Agege.
“We started having secret affair about a year ago. But her sister frowned at our relationship when she got to know. Unknown to her, we were still seeing each other. In order to be having regular conversation with her, I bought a mobile phone for her and instructed her to hide it from her sister.
“Whenever she intended coming to meet me, she would call and I will describe our meeting point for her. I thought if she could elope with me that would be better for us. I started working on her psyche and deceiving her with some material things.
“I was able to actualise eloping with her when her sister sent her on an errand on one Sunday afternoon. At first, I didn’t know she was with such amount of money. I just wanted to take her far away from her guardian for not supporting our relationship”, he reiterated.
Narrating her ordeal, Ibukun noted that the suspect forcefully deflowered her, adding that, he turned her to a sex slave.
According to her, “he forced himself on me the very first day I visited him at his residence. Ever since, he has been having sex with me without wearing condom.
“He slept with me anywhere and even at his friends’ place where he hid me for weeks. I succumbed to him because I couldn’t go back home” she added.
She explained that the suspect collected the N58,000:00 her sister gave her. “He fed me thrice a day probably from that thrift contribution money”, she added.
Looking pale, Ibukun further explained that she eloped with him out of ignorance.
The suspect was arrested along with one of his friends, Wasiu Agunbiade, who aided the abduction by accommodating the suspect and the teenager in his one-room apartment in Agege.
Agunbiade explained that he only accommodated them for a night, adding that he never knew he abducted the little girl.
“If I had known the girl was abducted, I would have advised him to return her to her parents. I never believed he could commit such crime. He begged me to accommodate them for one night with her in my room, and left my place the following day to somewhere else. I regretted allowing them to pass the night in my place”.
The sister, however, added that the victim would be taken to the hospital for thorough medical checkup.
While confirming the incident, the State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Superintendent of Police Dolapo Badmus, warned parents and guardians against exposing their wards and children to social vices around their environment.
The suspect, friend and the abducted girl have been transferred to the Divisional Police Office in Agege where the case was initially reported before RRS operatives took it up and rescued the girl.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment