The Senate have harmonised two bills aimed at protecting whistle blowers and witnesses directly involved in the prosecution of certain criminal cases.
The bills scaled second reading for committee level consideration in the Senate on Wednesday, on the advice of Senatte Leader Ali Ndume’s advice.
Isiaka Adeleke (APC-Osun) originally proposed the bill for an Act to provide for the establishment and operation of a programme to enable certain persons to receive protection in relation to certain inquiries, investigations or prosecutions (SB. 157).
The second bill, one for an Act to protect persons making disclosures for public interest and other forms reappraisal, 2016 (SB. 158) was proposed by Abiodun Olujimi (PDP-Ekiti).
Adeleke said a law protecting witnesses was usually required in the prosecution of organised crimes like terrorism.
In such trials, according to him, the witnesses would be allowed to wear masks, bear pseudo names and receive protection from authorities.
Olujimi said “this is a cardinal bill in the fight against corruption.”
She said fighting corruption hung on effective protection of whistleblowers
She mentioned three instances at the Ministry of Aviation, Women Development Centre and the Police Service Commission where whistleblowers were fired.
Dino Melaye, APC-Kogi, expressed support for the harmonised proposed legislation.
He said a similar bill was presented in the sixth and seventh Assemblies, but that paucity of funds and lack of political will prevented the passage of the bill.
“The ritual of presenting and re-presenting this bill will end with this Assembly,” Melaye said.
Although Messrs. Adeleke and Olujimi said the proposed bill did not have financial implication, Senate Whip, Sola Adeyeye, said it was impossible to protect whistleblowers and witnesses without funds.
“Those who step out to speak in good conscience should be protected,” Mr. Adeyeye said.
Only two persons – Messrs Adeyeye and Melaye – contributed to the debate before Senate President Bukola Saraki called for voice vote.
There was unanimous support, and  Saraki ruled the “ayes have it!”
He referred the two bills to Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters for harmonization and review, and should report back in two weeks.

			
			Post Views: 
			113