By ESTHER EGBE
THE historic partnership between Capital Oil/FC Ifeanyi Ubah and West Ham United football club of England and as expected, it was not without some brilliant speeches as stakeholders took turn to extol this wonderful initiative and congratulate the chairman/CEO Capital Oil and gas Chief Patrick Ifeanyi Ubah.
Then the moment everyone was waiting for came, it was time for Ubah to tell his story but instead of pouring out the emotions in full, he took time to shower praises on his friend and silent motivator, Mallam Shehu Dikko.
Not many knew that the name FC Ifeanyi Ubah was a coinage of Shehu Dikko, not many knew that sometimes last year, Dikko introduce his friend Ifeanyi Ubah to West Ham United and muted the partnership idea and structure between the two clubs which today has turned a monumental success.
Chief Ifeanyi didn’t hold back, he appealed to the crowd to join him in thanking his friend Shehu Dikko. Like he said years back during his investiture as grand patron of the Nigeria Nationwide league in Abuja, chief Ubah once again told the large gathering that the reason why he ventured into football in the first place is because he was moved by the involvement of people people like Dikko whom has over the years steadily metamorphosed into a shining light for every aspiring individual desperate to make a name in sports development strategy, marketing and administration.
This man Shehu Dikko standing to my right is the brain behind everything that is happening here today he said with an air of satisfaction and submission. If it was not for him, perhaps this dream wouldn’t have been a reality he continued. I want all of you to help me thank him for giving me the right advice and am sure he is here today to celebrate a child conceived over one year ago in London. Ifeanyi Ubah further told the gathering that Dikko demonstrated his high sense of professionalism as since he brought the two clubs together he has never even for once try to interfere and or seek for any personal benefits as he believes whatever comes out of it is for the good of Nigerian football.
Dikko has not only changed the face of the Nigerian league, with huge and improving benefits to the NPFL clubs, he has with his professional and transparent management, made the NPFL very attractive, professional, marketable and appealing . I will enjoin all football stakeholders to support Shehu Dikko led LMC in packaging and selling the Nigerian Professional Professional league to the corporate world” he concluded”
Ifeanyi Ubah also informed the audience how the tough conditions giving to him by the Shehu Dikko led LMC during his take over bid of Gabros FC which includes a minimum of N1billion investment guarantee into Nigerian football has been a source of motivation to him to do more and more towards the development of Nigerian football.
After his long speech, there was a standing ovation from the crowd for two of Nigeria’s young achievers whose investment in football development is immensely appreciable to say the least.
Dikko was all smiles as usual. Full of humility he nodded in appreciation and said afterwards that he was happy to be part of this historical event. He thanked Mr Angus Kinear the managing director of West Ham FC and his team from London, for believing in Nigeria and for agreeing to do business with a Nigerian club side. The chairman of one of Africa’s fast rising football league (The NPFL) also said he is looking forward to the day players of FC Ifeanyi Ubah will move across the Atlantic and join West Ham United football club. He said that day may turn out his happiest day.
The LMC only on Sunday in Enugu celebrated with the government and people of Enugu state as Rangers international emerged champions of the Nigeria professional football League and a proud winner of a giant trophy plus 40 million naira cash prize.
The next leg of the historic partnership deal will see the West Ham United delegation, visit Nnewi on Friday to witness what is arguably the biggest sports games village in Africa built by the chairman/CEO of Capital Oil and gas Chief Patrick Ifeanyi Ubah.
CEO of Capital Oil and gas Chief.

			
			PV: 
			0