Share this on WhatsApp
Officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has accused Mr. Jimoh Ibrahim of attempting to compromise the Ondo State Resident Electoral Commission (REC), Mr. Olusegun Agbaje.
The commission also restated its earlier position that there was no truth in Ibrahim’s allegation that its Acting Director, Legal Services, Mrs. Toyin Babalola, demanded $1m from him to comply with court order recognising him as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Ondo State governorship election. Ibrahim had, at a press conference on Sunday, alleged that Agbaje “requested to hold a meeting with him (Ibrahim) in London in the United Kingdom.”
He, therefore, called for Agbaje’s removal as Ondo REC as he would not conduct a credible election on November 26. But in a statement yesterday by Prince Adedeji Soyebi, National Commissioner in Charge of Publicity, INEC said Ibrahim was economical with the truth.
According to the commission, it was Ibrahim, who through an intermediary, tried to arrange a meeting with the Ondo State REC in London.
“This, Mr. Agbaje promptly declined and insisted that if Mr. Ibrahim wanted to see him (Agbaje), he was free to do so at the Ondo State INEC office during official hours.
“Therefore, Mr. lbrahim’s allegation cannot be the correct account of what actually took place,” the statement added. The commission also said there was no time when Babalola demanded $1 million bribe from Ibrahim before she could act on Justice Okon Abang’s court order.
It added that preliminary investigation revealed that “Mr. Ibrahim turned up at the INEC headquarters, Abuja unannounced, made his way to Mrs. Babalola’s office, brandished a copy of the court document and insisted that INEC should accept him as the official candidate of the PDP for the Ondo governorship poll.
“On sighting the unexpected guest, Mrs. Babalola called three other lawyers in her department to witness her encounter with Mr. Ibrahim and politely told him that the commission was already in possession of the court document.
“At no time during the encounter that lasted less than 15 minutes did Mrs. Babalola ask for $1million. “Therefore, the allegation by Mr. Ibrahim is false.” INEC noted that court orders/judgements are served by court bailiffs and not individual parties.
It also added that the commission only receives nomination papers from the national chairmen of political parties or their designated officials and not aspirants. The commission assured that it will never succumb to any form of blackmail or intimidation, but will remain focused on its determination to deliver free, transparent and credible elections, based on the rule of law.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment