Share this on WhatsApp

Sarah says she has been a victim of Davido’s disrespectful gestures.
 
Since Nigerian dance queen, Kaffy accused Davido of treating some dancers at the just concluded 3Thrones concert disrespectfully, there has been a series of revelations and more accusations.
 
Davido has maintained he has no problem with Kaffy, but he has again been accused of meting out same treatment to his backup dancers during the One Africa Music Fest in New York in July.
 
 
Sarah Olaniran, a dancer based in Chicago, United States stated in support of Kaffy today, October 27, that she paid dancers from her money after Davido refused to pay for their performance.
 
According to Sarah, Davido initially dismissed his dancers, only for him to call them back upon realisation he’d still have to pay, but never fulfilled his part of the deal.
 
‘This entire situation about Nigerian artists disrespecting dancers is far beyond ‘DavidO’. @kaffydance used the reoccurring events of Davids disrespect as an example of how a lot of Nigerian musicians (not all) do not appreciate dancers and our contributions to their crafts ( stage, music Videos or even promo social media videos).
 
‘Being that I was part of the first incident at the One Africa Music Fest (NewYork) I know how I felt when David decided right as we were walking on stage that he no longer wanted dancers. I personally felt disrespected and felt like he had no regards for my artistry as a dancer. At this point we all were upset and had to change right in the stadium, in front of all these people.
 
 ‘Then @kaffydance tells his manager that he’ll still have to pay the dancers because of our time wasted ( dressed and on stage) then his manager runs back to us and said ” He still wants dancers, he just didn’t want the for the first song. Tell them to get on for the next songs” Irritated and stressed we still got up there and did what we had to do. Fast forward a few weeks later, Kaffy had to pay the dancers out of her own pocket. I know this Cus I was there and I did the transfer to the dancers.
 
‘Kaffy NEVER GOT PAID! While David’s manager kept telling her he’ll pay soon only for David to finally tell her that he’s NOT PAYING! Please tell me why she wouldn’t be pissed off? This is not about 3thrones (that was just him disrespecting dancers at rehearsals) this is about the never ending disrespect and underpaying of dancers in the Nigerian entertainment industry.
 
‘Y’all WE NEED TO FIX THIS! Coming for Kaffy is not the issue and DavidO is not the issue. This is like a plague that needs to be flushed out of the system. I am not saying kaffy doesn’t have her faults (we all have our faults) but this is not a kaffy thing – it’s a dancer thing. RESPECT THE DANCER – PAY THE DANCER – ACKNOWLEDGE THE DANCER!’


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment