Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buhari has promised the federal government will take care of the 21 Chibok girls Boko Haram released last week.
He said this when he hosted the girls and their parents on Wednesday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
“Aside from rescuing them, we are assuming the responsibility for their personal, educational and professional goals and ambitions in life. Obviously, it is not late for the girls to go back to school and continue the pursuit of their studies,” Buhari said on Wednesday.
The 21 girls were part of the 276 female students of Government Secondary School Chibok abducted by Boko Haram in their hostel on April 14, 2014.
They were released last week following negotiations between the sect and the Nigerian government, the International Red Cross and the Swiss Government.
One of the abducted girls, Amina Ali, was found in May 2016.
“And today we are here celebrating the freedom and return of another 21 girls that regained freedom on Thursday 13th October. We are equally as hopeful as we are praying, that the remaining girls will be freed and returned to us without further delay,” Mr. Buhari said.
The president also said the released girls will be given adequate and comprehensive medical, nutritional and psychological care and support.
“The Federal Government will rehabilitate them, and ensure that their reintegration back to the Society is done as quickly as possible,” he said.
He described the girls’ freedom as a “happy moment for me and for all Nigerians.
“It is a moment your parents, the Nation and the International Community have been eagerly waiting for, since your abduction on 14th April 2014.”
According to him, the Nigerian DSS, military and other security agencies have spared no effort to secure our girls.
“These 21 girls are the manifestation of our doggedness and commitments to the release and return of the Chibok girls.
“While joining their parents to rejoice and praise the Almighty, we shall redouble efforts to ensure that we fulfill our pledge of bringing the remaining girls back home.
“Already, the credible first step has been taken and Government will sustain the effort until all the remaining girls return safely,” he said.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment