From Left: Toibudeen Oduniyi - Acting CEO, Lagos Archives and Property Litigation Registry Limited; Segun Oloketuyi, MD Wema Bank Plc., Olufunmilayo Atilade, Chief Judge of Lagos State (Right)
 	

        Share this on WhatsApp



In other to enhance a world-class archiving service, Wema Bank Plc. recently supported the Lagos State Government and the Justice Research Institute with the sum of N20 million to transform record management in the Lagos State High Court
Apart from the N20 million funding by Wema Bank, the Bank also granted  the Lagos Archives and Property Litigation Registry, LAPLR, a Project Finance Facility to the tune of N201 million.
Segun Oloketuyi, Managing Director of Wema Bank, while speaking at the launch of the archives at the Lagos State High Court recently, noted that the bank identified the need to have a credible source of information on land and property that are subject to litigation in Lagos State, hence the bank’s decision to support the project.
“We lent our support in two ways; Corporate Social Responsibility was part of the financing, it wasn’t just loan,” Oloketuyi said. “Even the loan was given at an extremely low interest rate and long tenor to ensure the repayment is easy. We did this as a push for the company handling this project in partnership with the Lagos judiciary, on the need to create value, an opportunity presented by this project.”
The Wema Bank MD noted that when the project was conceived and the bank was contacted for financing, “we contributed some ideas which were also brought into the picture to ensure the success of the project.”
Oloketuyi who heads a bank that has become extremely active in the digital space in recent years, has always been an advocate of digitization. “I believe to save space, improve security and be in tune with global best practices, the next step will be to digitalize the records. That way, anyone who needs information can access it from the comfort of their offices,” the Wema Bank MD said.
In a bid to address the deteriorating state of the Lagos High Court archives, the Lagos State Judiciary and the Justice Research Institute Ltd., a private limited liability company, partnered to create a joint venture, the Lagos Archives and Property Litigation Registry (LAPLR).
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment