Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
An American team of technologists in Digital Terrestrial Television Broadcasting, AEVOLVE/MYATV Technology Inc. on Thursday arrived Nigeria to conclude a contractual agreement with ATD Global Security Services Ltd.
AEVOLVE Technology Incorporation’s Chief Operating Officer, Mr Les Snead would officially consummate agreement with his Nigerian Business partner, Comrade Olakunle Moses Johnson a co-founder of MYATV concept, and Chairman of ATD.
The memorandum of understanding (MOU) and power of attorney will be officially concluded with the Federal and state government in Nigeria, to engender an economically viable partnership,which will guarantee the protection of our local economy.
The meeting slated for Friday Oct. 28, 2016 would hold at ATD Head Office located, Black Sign Board Bus Stop along Lagos-Badagry Expressway.
The ATD had officially invited the foreign investors to ensure Nigeria seamlessly change to digital broadcasting fully.
“Nigeria will formally key into digital terrestrial television broadcasting with the contractual agreement between AEVOLVE/MYATV Technology Inc. in the USA and ATD in Nigeria.
“The MYATV concept intends to offers viewers in Africa uninterrupted signals simultaneously before the year runs out. This is unprecedented in the country.
“The development when consummated will offer millions of Nigerians opportunity to have unhindered access to digital broadcast signals across the whole nation.
“The consumer will only have to purchase a device called “ABOX” to enable them access the signals to broadcast contents across countries of the world,” the statement said.
The existing UHF aerials will be leveraged on to receive Digital Terrestrial Television Broadcasting (DTTB) and the prospected subscribers would not need to install any hardwares to get the services.
It added, “the service will offer better quality of audio/visual signals, reduction of “ghosting”, and the DTTB signals are not affected by weather interference.
“Nigerians will have to pay little or nothing to access the services.”
The new platform that will anchor the concept will be known as MYATV and will use DVB-T2 lite technology to capture mobile viewers market.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment