Share this on WhatsApp



Smarting from the backlash President Muhammadu Buhari’s wife interview with the British Broacasting Corporation (BBC), information reaching this medium shows that Hajia Hajo Sani, Aisha Buhari’s unofficial chaperon had made preparations to leave Nigeria to take up her supervisory role over President Buhari’s wife.
President Buhari’s aides have concluded that Aisha Buhari henceforth must be chaperoned at every public outings, to forestall another statement that may not sit well with the Presidency
Haji Sani wasn’t with Aisha when she gave the BBC interview, she’s scrambling to go to London before Aisha proceeds to Brussels and say more stuff.
They are angry as hell and are smarting from the exposé.
Unfortunately for them, they cannot prevent BBC from airing the remaining part of the interview. Nigerians are waiting with bated breath to hear and to read it.
Buhari is a thorough Northern conservative who loves his wife. His winning the election changed all that as power mongers encircled him and stifled his wife.
Aisha must have had it up to her neck and totally exasperated before she spilled it all out in London.
Sources revealed to this medium that the influence of Hajo dates back to when Buhari married Aisha. Hajo was like the supervisory guide to her. After she grew and carved her own niche and the husband won the presidency, the cabal engineered Hajo as her Special Assistant to cage her.
National Daily gathered that there is no love lost between them. Hajo at about 10 years older is very overbearing.
Hajo was a minister under Abacha. Like people with her kind of mold, she hugs power like bodysuit.
Aisha Buhari’s BBC interview was not a mistake. She has been totally encircled and alienated from her husband with Hajo usurping her role. She had to spill her frustrations and prod her husband to leave a legacy.
Hajia Sani is a member of the Kaduna political Mafia group that regrouped immediately the late President Umar Yar’Ardua got elected in 2007.
Abagana Kingibe, Gen Monguno NSA, Abba kyari, Mamman Daura and Hajo Sani are the quartet Aisha Buhari fingered as having a negative hold on her husband. What inflamed her was the fact that these individuals made no known contribution to the emergence of President Buhari.
Taciturn Mamman Daura is one of the vestigial remains of the Kaduna Mafia.
A dying political breed whose grip on power receded after the death of Abacha.
The origins of the Kaduna mafia revolves around the demise of the first republic.
The loss of many Northern leaders in the 1966 coup prodded a group of Northern civil servants to rally around and oppose the new government of General Aguiyi Ironsi.
The group, a diverse mixture of aristocrats and civil servants were predominantly Muslim and based in Kaduna.
Many of its members were educated at the famous Barewa College in Zaria, and had demonstrated a certain level of managerial competence in comparison to some of their older contemporaries.
They were known for their intelligence, commitment to the traditional values and socio-political interests of Northern Nigeria.
Members were involved in varied aspects of the Nigerian nation, they were bank directors, ministers, military colonels and owners of business; their main differentiating symbol was the prominence of economic interest as a driving factor in their activities.
The group thrived on an elaborate network of power alliances among northern aristocrats and government sympathizers who favored the groups pro-northern and Islamic bent.
Famous members and allies includes Adamu Ciroma, Mamman Daura, Ibrahim Tahir, Mahmud Tukur, Gen.Shehu Musa Yar’Adua and Muhammadu Buhari.
Unfortunately, as time revealed, they all departed from the ideals championed by Sir Ahmadu Bello. They looked after themselves and cared less about the people they had planned to protect. It was all about power
In the 1980’s Buhari took a nationalistic view with a mission to restore values and put Nigeria straight. He did not hesitate to jail anyone from anywhere. His reputation as a patriot and lover of Nigeria as an indivisible entity emanated from there. He burnished his credentials by decisively destroying the Maitatsine sect and putting Islamic extremism out of the North until Babagida happened to us.
National Daily gather that President Buhari need to take the necessary step to retrieve Nigeria from the grip of his uncle Mamman Daura.
The Presidency once withdrew Mamman Daura’s aides, revoked his security clearance and security details were instructed them not to allow him into Aso Villa. Somehow, Mamman Daura found his way back and became more virulent.
Mamman Daura accounted for the northernization of the Presidency.
President Buhari this medium gathered wanted a pan Nigeria Presidency, He is helpless and totally caged, He couldn’t transcend the old order.
His wife is way ahead of him on this and she wants her husband’s name in gold. The BBC interview is a cry for help.
Her supporters offered that for Aisha to take that step in a conservative Islamic family is an unusual step and a very bold one. To do it in London is very telling. It is a very bold, courageous and calculated step.
New order in the northern respect her courage but feared for her life in the hands of this cabal.
“We must let them know that Aisha must not be silenced. She must not be killed. Those around Buhari are great power mongers with careless disregard for Nigeria.
“Just power for its own sake. Power that has not translated into anything for the teeming Northern youths and Nigerians in general.” says Kanke Utuman of the Kaduna Youth Forum.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment