Share this on WhatsApp



Former Aviation Minister Femi Fani-Kayode slumped Saturday night in the EFCC custody, and situation could have worsened but for the intervention of the agency’s medical team.
His aide, Jude Ndukwe, said this in a release Tuesday, praising the non-partisanship of the agency’s medical department which did a professional job of bringing around Fani-Kayode rearrested last weekend.
“They were prompt in their response, and very impressive in their care. It is very heartwarming to know that some professionals have not allowed the political witch hunt and persecution of political opponents and perceived enemies taint their professional calling. We hope this extends to all facets of the Nigerian society.”
Fani-Kayode, the director of media and publicity for the Goodluck Jonathan presidential election campaign team in 2015, has been facing trial for collecting N1.1 billion from ex-NSA Sambo Dasuki whi is also facing trial for mismanageing $2.1 billion arms vote between 2014 and 2013.
He denies wrongdoing, and accuses the Buhari administration of targeting him as part of a wider campaign to silence opposition politicians.
Ndukwe said Fani-Kayode’s health condition had been communicated to the EFCC, and blasted the commission for re-arresting him.
“It is therefore shocking that having known these facts, the EFCC still acted in a most unprofessional and crude way by re-arresting a man who has never been known to turn down their invitation even for once, who was since granted administrative bail by the same Commission after meeting the stringent conditions set by them; a man who is also supposed to be on bail as granted by the courts after fulfilling the conditions, and who even has his international passport still lodged with the Commission,” he said.
“Although Chief Femi Fani-Kayode was yet to complete the recovery therapy he was undergoing after spending the initial 67 grueling days in EFCC custody wherein he was also physically attacked by one of the Commission’s agents, in deference to the law and the Commission, he painfully but willingly cut short his therapy and medical checks to attend court proceedings.
“One would have thought that these were enough to convince EFCC that Fani-Kayode was very willing to face his persecutors in court. But rather than be humane in their conduct, EFCC hounded him for the umpteenth time on that fateful Friday and have since kept him in custody.”
Mr. Ndukwe said his principal is now being accused by the EFCC of receiving another N26 million from Mr. Dasuki.
“The fresh charges for which he was said to have been re-arrested were presented to him over the weekend and they border on an alleged N26m which he was accused to have collected from the erstwhile NSA, Sambo Dasuki, and he has since signed for the charges while he waits for his day in court. So, why still detain him if there is no sinister motive behind it all?” he asked.
According to him, it is obvious that this issue about corruption is nothing but an already exposed façade for the silencing of opposition voices, and keep Fani-Kayode out of circulation as long as practicable since he is seen by many as one of the strongest voices against tyranny, oppression and executive lawlessness.
“For the avoidance of doubt, we reiterate our earlier warning that nothing untoward must happen to Chief Femi Fani-Kayode whether now or in the nearest future. Should anything happen to him, we can assure those responsible that there would be reactions of unimaginable propensity,” he said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment