Share this on WhatsApp



Former Minister of Works and Senator representing Benue North East senatorial district, Engr. Barnabas Gemade has enjoined his constituents and Tiv nation at large to grumble over unfair distribution of federal appointments to Benue State.
Reacting to the recent outbursts by some Tiv Social Media Activists, criticising their leaders and accusing them of not fighting for the interest of Tiv nation, the two -term Senator admitted that they had not yet had fair share of federal appointments under this administration.
He, however, pleaded with the youths and other concerned elders to remain hopeful as the President was being engaged constructively to make sure the Tiv nation was carried along in the scheme of things.
“Being a parliamentarian does not make us activists; we are not activists. We can only do constructive engagements and we are already in the process of constructive engagement with this government.
“We will ensure that the people we represent have a fair share. For now, we do not yet have a fair share of appointments, but we are working towards ameliorating the problem and we are receiving the full cooperation of the President to ensure that is done”, Gemade said.
President Muhammadu Buhari had last week nominated former Commissioner for Education in the second republic, Dr. Enyantu Ifenne (Idoma) as a non-career Ambassador from Benue State.
Though two career Ambassadors (Tiv) were earlier nominated by the President, awaiting Senate’s confirmation, but the Tiv youths and some elites took to the social media pages to lambast Gov. Samuel Ortom and their federal lawmakers for not fighting enough to bring home some plum federal appointments.
They particularly argued that it was the two senatorial districts of the Tiv nation which overwhelmingly delivered President Buhari during the 2015 Presidential election, while their Idoma counterparts mobilised for another party.
Hence, they queried President Buhari for appointing both Minister and Non-career Ambassador from same zone that was not only the minority, but also worked against his presidential ambition in 2015.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment