Share this on WhatsApp



Nissan in collaboration with Stallion Group has donated a brand new Nissan Almera car to the Lagos State Security Trust Fund in praise of the organisation’s efforts in mitigating violent crimes in Lagos State.
The donation which is Nissan’s first to the robust organisation is an expression of the automaker’s corporate responsibility values of appropriating support to relevant agencies and organisations in the country.
Managing Director, Stallion NMN Parvir Singh who made this remark at the presentation of the car in Lagos said: “Having followed the organisation’s achievements in recent years, Stallion NMN in collaboration with our principals, Nissan South Africa are pleased to extend our hands of fellowship to the society that has made our business operations more secure and attractive. And, this is largely due to the activities of the Security Trust Fund in curbing the menace of crime in Lagos State.”
Mr. Singh described Nissan as an internationally acclaimed brand with key representation worldwide and the automaker is currently the No. 2 in Japan and the sixth largest automaker with over 5.4 million units sold worldwide in 2015.
West African Conglomerate Stallion Group in April 2013 partnered with Nissan South Africa to form Stallion NMN, the sole manufacturer, importer and distributor of Nissan products in Nigeria.
Stallion NMN later became the first indigenous motor assembly plant to roll-out locally assembled Nissan vehicles consequent upon the inauguration of the National Automotive Policy, assembling four Nissan models including Patrol, NP300, NV350 and Almera at the plant in Lagos.
Also speaking at the occasion, Director, Sales and Operations Nissan sub-Saharan Africa Jimmy Dando said: “Nigeria is Nissan’s most outstanding market in Africa Growth strategy and “we will exploit the country’s strategic regional partners in the West Coast to make Nigeria the automobile hub for evolving West African markets.”
He said Nigeria’s economy has strong potential of becoming Africa’s wealthiest and these core values are Nissan’s attraction to Nigeria,
“We will in collaboration with Stallion transform Nigeria into a notable manufacturing and distribution hub that can provide comprehensive range of passenger, commercial and recreational vehicles and gradually transform Nissan into one of the largest automaker not only in Nigeria but in the West Africa sub-region,” the Nissan helmsman assured.
Receiving the vehicle on behalf of the Fund, Lagos Security Trust Fund Executive Secretary & CEO, Dr. Abdurrazaq Balogun commended the magnanimity of Stallion and Nissan especially at this crucial period in the country’s economic history, and assured the organization wouldn’t leave any stone unturned in realising its objectives.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment