Share this on WhatsApp



Leader of Biafra Independent Movement (BIM), Chief Ralph Uwazuruike said, the United States of America’s military’s prophesy of Nigeria’s possible break-up in 2015 may still be possible, afterall.
Uwazuruike said the US Army, in a test organised in 2008 to ascertain how its army might respond to war in parts of Africa, including Nigeria and Somalia, has started yielding results.
He spoke through his Director of Information, Mr. Chris Mocha and added that the resultant effect of the US army’s prediction included unabated insurgency in the North, herdsmen’s menace, militancy in Niger Delta, separatist agitations for Biafra Republic, the economic recession that has brought sufferings, poverty, looting spree and bribery and corruption by officials in government establishments.
“That nothing is working in Nigeria today has justified my Biafra struggle for independence.
“I cautioned Nigerian corrupt leaders who criticised the US army’s prediction of Nigeria’s possible breakup in 2015 as prophecy of doom, never to rejoice, insisting that the breakup of Nigeria into six republics is not yet over.”
Uwazuruike recalled that in an article written by Director of the African Security Research Project in Washington DC and Guest Columnist of All Africa Globe Media, Mr. Daniel Volman, the Nigerian scenario was predicated upon a possible war from 2013.
“The article observed that it was the first time African scenarios were included as part of Pentagon’s plan to create a new military command for Africa, the United States Africa Command (AFRICOM).”
It also emerged that “the free flow of natural resources from Africa to the global market” was one of the “guiding principles” of AFRICOM, as articulated by Vice Admiral Robert Moeller at an AFRICOM conference held at Fort McNair on February 18, 2006.
The 2013 war date, the article said, was a test of how AFRICOM could respond to a crisis in Nigeria in the event that rival factions and rebels fight for control of the oil field of the Niger Delta and the government was near collapse.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment