Accuse Tinubu of working to destroy the party

The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) has continued to deepen in the same manner that the support base of party members is beginning to cross ethnic boundaries.  It is an irony that the youths in the South West could abandon their own, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in the power tussle in the APC to support the party’s National Chairman, Chief john Odigie-Oyegun, from Edo State, South-South.

Youths from the South-West, on Sunday, made a stout defence of the character and integrity of Odigie-Oyegun, describing him as a modernizer with an uncommon vision in the administration of APC.

“Odigie-Oyegun’s politics is driven by character and integrity,” the youths said in a statement by Alhaji Taiwo Ganiyu, the Media Assistant.

The youths commended Oyegun for protecting the rights of every stakeholder who seeks an elective office in executive and legislature offices.

The youths in Akure applauded Oyegun for the dignity, diligence and dedication he has demonstrated in his duties as APC national chairman.

“Chief Odigie-Oyegun is a principled, forthright and articulate politician,” they declared.

The youths accused APC national leader and former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, as well as APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Timi Frank, of working to destroy the party.

Chairman of the South West APC Youth Forum, Dr. Yinka Afolabi, declared that the youths from the South West zone distance themselves from those calling on APC national chairman to resign.

“What we have in APC is a leadership imbued with a sense of mission and a clear appreciation of the aspirations of the members,” the youths remarked.

They also called on the deputy national publicity secretary, Frank, members of the Lagos State House of Assembly and other critics of Oyegun, to find more constructive things to do rather than spending time and resources on maligning an honest leader who is doing his best for the party and the country.

They stressed the need for unity among party leaders so that the party can win the Ondo State governorship election.

“Ondo State cannot afford to be sentenced to another four years of ineptitude, drift and purposelessness” the youths warned.

			
			Post Views: 
			99