By  OKOSUN DENNIS
The Zone 2 Police Command, Onikan, has arrested three hoodlums who had a clash with rival land grabbers at Orudu, Oke Olokun Village, Ibeju Lekki Local Government Area of Lagos State with dangerous weapons and charms.
Those arrested at the scene of the fracas included one Ibrahim Oduola, with a bag that was hanging on his neck and was found to have contained two battle axes, two sharp knives, some assorted dangerous charms, and other items.
ALSO SEE: Protest turns bloody in Akure as APC factions clash
Arrested with him are AbdulAfeez Oduola and Joseph Akintunde, (all male), he confessed that he went with other gang to Oke Olokun village to repel attacks from the rival group.
The Assistant Inspector General of Police, in charge of Zone 2 Command, AIG Abdulmajid Ali, in fulfilment of his promises and determination to assist the government in curbing land grabbing within the zone, mandated the Anti-Kidnapping Team of the zone to launch counter-attack on the land grabbers following a distress reports of their activities. In the process, the suspects were arrested in Lagos on 1st October, 2016.
The Zonal Police Public Relations Officer, Superintendent Muyiwa Adejobi, said in Lagos on Wednesday that after the AIG was informed of “the activities of some land grabbers at Orudu, Oke Olokun village, Ibeju Lekki Local Government Area, Lagos State, he detailed and dispatched a team of Anti-Kidnapping Unit of the Command Headquarters to the scene to restore normalcy and apprehend any individuals that engaged in such unacceptable act.
“On arrival, the team accosted a group of hoodlums suspected to belong to two rival land “warriors” who were poised to attack each other. However, the timely arrival of the police team salvaged the situation from degenerating into loss of lives and wanton destruction of properties of innocent members of the affected communities.
The suspects who were charged to court on the order of the Assistant Inspector General of Police on Wednesday (today) are facing charges contrary to Lagos state laws on land grabbing and interrupt disruption of public peace and order.
He reiterated that the AIG frowns at land grabbing or land speculators and would not relent at making the zone tougher for anybody or any group of persons who want to promote such illegality and inhuman acts.
While warning land grabbers to be mindful of their actions, called on the general public to report any act of land grabbing to his office for necessary action.

			
			PV: 
			0