L-R: The Head, Customer Service, Kia Motors Nigeria, Mrs. Bukola Maduka; the head Marketing and Communications, Mr. Peter Ayewoh, Nigeria Customer Service Award; the Coordinator, Nigeria Customer Service Award, Dr Aliyu Iliyas; and Customer Care Executive, Kia Motors Nigeria, Mrs. Yetunde Busari
        Share this on WhatsApp



 
For its exceptional customer service, KIA Motors Nigeria has bagged the best customer service provider award at the 2016 Nigeria Customer Service Award (NCSA) in the automobile category.
In this year’s edition of the Nigeria Customer Service Award held at the Civic Towers in Lagos, Kia was singled out for superior customer service. The award is a recognition of the brand’s proactive practices, continuous improvements, and dedicated resolve to streamline its processes to make service offering more customer-focused.
The 2016 award winners were determined based on results from surveys distributed to customers, hence, Kia exceeded the expectations of its customers from sales to exceptional after sales service and this unprecedented feat was adjudged the best in the industry by the organizers.
Aliyu Ilias, coordinator of the NCSA, speaking on the significance of the awards, said “it basically aims at celebrating service excellence in Nigeria. We encourage Nigerian companies to go beyond paying lip-service and eye-service to customers because the customer deserves better”. He further stressed that the award is unique because it reflects the opinions of customers at every touch point by providing companies with a glimpse into what potential customers really think of their brand and showcasing their perception strengths.
“We provide unequalled end-to-end customer experiences. At all touch points, our customers are provided premium service that is second to none and uniquely tailored to their requirements. Our dynamic operations provide seamless measures to ensure consistency and we are poised to exploring new, innovative ideas to improve and enhance the products and services we offer to stay ahead of the curve in the industry” said Sandeep Malhotra, Chief Commercial Officer, Kia Motors Nigeria.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment