Share this on WhatsApp

 Domestic violence, child abuse top agenda

The First Lady, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, Governor Adams Oshiomhole of Edo State, are among dignitaries expected to grace this year’s national women conference of the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO), with the theme ‘Strong Family, Strong Nation.’COWLSO Chairman and wife of Lagos State Governor, Mrs. Bolanle Ambode, at a press briefing at the Bagauda Kaltho Press Centre, Alausa, Ikeja, this Monday, disclosed that the wife of the President would serve as the Mother of the Day and also declare the conference open, while Governor Oshiomhole would be the Special Guest of Honour, at the closing ceremony.

The Conference, according to Mrs. Ambode, is slated to hold between October 24 and 26, 2016 at the Convention Centre of Eko Hotel and Suits, Victoria Island. She said that other seasoned academics and facilitators drawn from Nigeria and outside the country would discuss various issues such as causes of domestic violence and consequences, building blocks of the family unit, child abuse, family finance, caring for family members with disabilities and health challenges, among others.

Mrs. Ambode said the theme of the conference was carefully selected and meant to stress the importance of the family unit as the core of society. According to her, any country that would be strong must have strong family units.

“The conference is designed to enrich the knowledge of women on good family values, good upbringing of children and lots more,” Mrs. Ambode stated.

Besides, the wife of the Lagos State Governor said there would be presentation of certificates of appreciation to notable individuals and organisations for their long-standing partnership and support for COWLSO, while an award of Inspirational Women of the Year would also be presented to a distinguished Nigerian woman achiever, who has excelled in her chosen career, mentored other women and has supported the vision of the group.

She said “There will be dinner/gala on the second day of the conference and the gala will feature a raffle draw with opportunity for participants to win different mouth-watering prizes.”While recalling the prizes that were won last year which included two brand new cars, first class return tickets, deep freezers and other gift items, Mrs. Ambode said adequate provision has also been made to convey participants from various parts of Lagos to the venue.

She said the annual conference was part of the strategic intervention of COWLSO to support the activities of Lagos State Government, especially, with regards to women and family matters.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment