Share this on WhatsApp



As the date for the 2016 Nigeria Auto Journalists Awards (NAJA) draws nearer, the organisers of the event have called on the public to vote for their favourite nominees on the website of the Nigeria Auto Journalists Association.
According to a statement released by the organisers, members of the public can log on to www.naja.com.ng and cast their vote as the votes cast will constitute 50% of the total votes to arrive at the winners. The other 50% will be done by the different auto journalists cutting across print, broadcast and on-line.
The event which is slated for Thursday, November 24, 2016, at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, has nominations in different categories in products/services, personalities and prominent industry personalities.
Other highpoint of this year’s award will be in the Car-Of-The-Year (COTY) category where Toyota Corolla, Peugeot 301 and Nissan Almera were selected. Other categories of awards are Luxury Car of the Year, Road Safety Personality of The Year, Heavy Duty Truck of The Year, Auto Plant of the Year, Auto Personality of the Year and CSR Company of the Year.
Other categories include Mini Bus of the Year, Pick-up of the Year, Most Safety Conscious Transport Company of The Year, Traffic Management Agency of The Year, Showroom of the Year, Large SUV of the Year, Armouring Auto Company of The Year and Auto Industry Promoter of the Year amongst others.
Meanwhile, the Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi and the Director General of the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), Engr. Aminu Jalal, as well as the President of the Coscharis group, Dr. Cosmas Mduka, are due to be conferred with special recognitions during the award night.
It would be recalled that last year, the event which held at the same venue, was witnessed by Engr. Jalal and other top industry personalities, after which the Kia Rio was crowned Car of the Year
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment