Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has declared that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and others plotting to transplant the Edo State rigging model in Rivers State would fail as the people of the state would resist them.
Wike spoke while flagging off the reconstruction of Bonny Jetty at the Bille/Bonny/Nembe Waterfront in Port Harcourt.
“Anyone planning to steal our mandate will be resisted. Nobody can intimidate us. They will rig themselves into the water,” he stated.
The governor stressed that INEC and pliant security agencies would not be allowed to use the Edo governorship election model in Rivers State.
His words: “I hear some persons celebrating that they will repeat what they did in Edo State, here in Rivers State. Somebody who is suffering from malaria can say anything. But nobody will use the police to rig the rerun elections in Rivers State
“If you want to take our mandate by force, you will go by force. All the people of Rivers State must remain vigilant. INEC may want to take us unawares.”
On the flag off of the reconstruction of Bonny Jetty, Wike said the project was aimed at developing a quality water transport jetty where safety and security is promoted.
He also said the reconstruction of the jetty was in fulfilment of the pledge that he made to the people of the area during the electioneering campaign.
He said: “The day I came here to inspect this facility, I wept because of the condition of the jetty. We will develop it into a modern jetty.
“All the roads in the township suburb will also be rehabilitated by Julius Berger.”
Wike, while asking the residents of the area to support the contractor to deliver the contract on schedule, he charged the contractor to employ the residents of the area in the course of reconstruction work.
In his remarks, Commissioner for Transport, Mr Akie Fubara said the Bonny Jetty would have a new jetty walkway and platform, terminal building housing arrival and departure lounges, improved driveway, retention wall and enhanced car parks.
Managing Director of Raffoul Nigeria Limited, Mr Hana Raffoul, assured the people that the jetty would be constructed in line with international standards.
The Bonny is the main gateway to Bonny and Bille in Rivers State and Nembe in Bayelsa State.

			
			Post Views: 
			79