Share this on WhatsApp



The Senator Ali Sheriff-led faction of the Peoples Democratic Party has threatened to take discipline the Ahmed Makarfi – led national caretaker committee if it continues to speak for the party.
A statement issued by Bernard Mikko, acting National Publicity Secretary of Sheriff-led faction, warned that a court order had declared the committee illegal.
He recalled that a Federal High Court presided over by Justice Okon Abang in Abuja had declared the Makarfi caretaker `contraption’ as illegal.
“It will therefore be contemptuous of the court order for Prince Dayo Adeyeye or any member of the illegal Makarfi caretaker contraption to speak for the PDP when a valid court order to the contrary is still subsisting,” Mr. Mikko said.
Mr. Mikko said the attention of the faction’s National Working Committee had been drawn to various comments on the state of affairs in the PDP.
He said that various comments were credited to “one Prince Dayo Adeyeye’’ who claimed to be speaking as the national publicity secretary (National Caretaker Committee), particularly as the reconciliation process appears to have relapsed.
He explained that the reconciliation relapsed due to Mr. Makarfi’s insistence not to disband his caretaker committee when Mr. Sheriff is inclined to step down at the next unity convention of the party
The convention is expected to usher in new executive members of the party.
Mr. Mikko said: “Adeyeye is hereby reminded that the terms of the MoU for reconciliation did not vitiate subsisting court orders without prejudice to pending legal matters.
“While we will respect the terms of the MoU in the reconciliation process, we will not fail to activate the legal processes and hold them in contempt for any breach of the law.
“If they continue the impunity and act in disobedience of the law, disciplinary legal procedures, particularly forms 48 and 49 will be processed against them.’’
Mr. Mikko however assured PDP members and stakeholders of Ali Sheriff’s commitment to resolve the leadership imbroglio in accordance with the law.
(NAN)
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment