Share this on WhatsApp
At the end of its three-day retreat in Sokoto, the APC Kano Chapter passed a vote of confidence on President Muhammadu Buhari on October 30.
The declaration and other issues were stated in a communiqué jointly signed by the Chairman and Secretary of the Communiqué Drafting Committee, Alhassan Doguwa and Umar Danlasan.
”The retreat has also resolved to support Buhari’s resolve to tackle the problems of insecurity, corruption and to revitalise the economy and other policies.
”Participants appreciated efforts of the government of Kano Government for initiating the retreat as the first of its kind to institutionalise capacity building through effective management of party administration.
”Participants overwhelmingly passed a vote of confidence on Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, as the leader of the party and further confidence on the existing leadership under Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas.”
The communiqué further stated that the participants had expressed their readiness to privately finance the construction of the proposed APC State Secretariat through the party’s Board of Trustees.
The communiqué added that the participants further passed a vote of confidence on the National Working Committee of the party under the leadership of John Oyegun.
”Politics should not be seen as a means of personal enrichment but an avenue of developing the wellbeing of the people of Kano State.
”Political party officials should foster horizontal and vertical communication networks among members and party’s organisation at various levels.
”This is in order to ensure effective internal democracy. Political party discipline should be kept at highest and lowest levels of the party’s structure.
”This is also to promote unity and preserve loyalty among its members,” it added.
The communiqué further stressed the need for a harmonious relationship with the government in the state to continue to be responsive to popular demands.
The participants, according to the communiqué, should develop mechanisms of safeguarding their integrity, uniqueness, coherence and prudence in its use of resources.
The communiqué, among other issues, stressed the need to engage women leaders at all levels in the mobilisation drive of the party to promote women participation and support.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment