Share this on WhatsApp



By IFEOMA IKEM
A group of medical experts have stressed the need for innovation, technology and research in turning around the fortunes of the medical sector in Nigeria.
The doctors also condemned the spate of medical tourism particularly by people in authority over cases of common diseases that could easily be treated in the country.
Only recently, the president went abroad to treat an ear problem amidst a lot of controversy by professionals in the sector given the number of Ear, Nose and Throat centres and professionals available to treat ENT cases in the country.
Different speakers, at the event meant to highlight the challenges and achievement a researcher faces as a hospital manager, spoke on the theme: ‘Multidisciplinary forum on molecular technology: Laying the foundation for revolutionised research in Nigeria.’
Among those present were the Vice-Chancellor, Prof R.A Bello, Provost, College of Medicine, Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Prof. Folasade Ogunsola; Prof. Olubunmi Magbabeola, Dean, Faculty of Basic Medical Science, University of Lagos, Prof. Clement Adeboye Humboldt Ambassador Scientist in Nigeria, Osun State University, Nigeria, Dr. Daniela Kneissl, Head of Division, Africa and Middle East, Alexander Von Humboldt Foundation, Prof Oluyemi Akinloye, Convener; Prof. Babatunde Salako, DG NIMR, Lagos, and Prof. Christian Happi, Director of African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of infectious Disease (ACECID), Redeemer’s University, Ede, Nigeria.
The speakers stressed that the medical experts, as the supposed leader in the healthcare sector, should carry all other medical professions along as stakeholders, as they cannot do it all alone.
They noted that team work can never be overstretched as everybody is important in the field.
The speakers described the medical expert as a manager charged with directing and controlling the work and staff of the hospital as a whole or unit/department within it.
The speakers maintained that leadership in the health sector should not create room for rivalry, but partnership.
They noted that the medical expert is also an administrator charged with running the affairs of the hospital as an organisation or institution or business.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment