Share this on WhatsApp



The Central Bank of Nigeria has given insight to why it disbursed N2.1 billion paid to the chairman of Daar communication Limited Raymond Dokpesi from the Office of the National Security Adviser. Testifying the court today, October 19, after eight months of Dokpesi’s arraignment, the first prosecution witness (PW1) said the money which was paid in four tranches certified all legitimacy standards as specified by the Apex bank.
Aliyu Mohammed, a manager at the payment section of CBN, Abuja Branch told the court in his examination which was led by prosecuting counsel Rotimi Jacobs that the four payments were duly certified. Mohammed said: “When the mandates came to our office, they were confirmed by the head of office and duly verified. After the verification, we effected the payments.” He also said a first and second payment mandate of N500 million each for media campaign was brought to the apex bank on January 21 and February 2, 2015, respectively.
He added that signatory to the account were the national security adviser and the director of finance at ONSA. “The mandate for the N500 million was signed by M.S. Dasuki and S.A. Salisu and after we verified the signatures, we effected the payments,” Mohammed said. Further, the witness added that the third and fourth payments of N620 million and N500 million were brought on February 9, and March 19, respectively – also for media campaign. “The procedure for payment is such that the paying organization will bring the payment instrument through an officer authorized to do so,” he said. He said: “The officer will confirm the mandate before us by writing his name, signature, status, phone number and thumbprint as well as the date.
After we receive it, it will be passed for verification.” “The verification will include cheque of the authorized signatories of that account, (operators of the account). The mandate must also be written in a letter headed-paper. The date and account number to be debited will also be included. He noted that after verification, the CBN confirms that all due process have been compiled with and then the mandates would be passed for payments and a debit and credits made to the slated accounts. However, during his cross examination, Mohammed said other payments schedules were included on the same document.
These payments, Mohammed said include N2 billion paid to A. R Security solutions for personnel support, N500 million to Dalhatu Investments for equipment procurement, N13.6 million for the supply of rice to internally displaced persons – to an undisclosed name. He also said N75 million was paid for another security purpose, CinC security department while N200 million was paid to Onile Nigeria limited for consultancy service; N450 million to Vibrant Resources limited for security services, N148 million to Jawaz Multipurpose e-Venture for supply of security equipment and N100 million to General Hydro-carbon for energy consultation. Other payment include N293.5 million which belongs to the ONSA for de-radicalization project and N400 million to Coose Limited for the supply of security equipment. Mohammed also told the court that all the above payments made by CBN were certified as legitimate.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment