The 28 Ppolitical parties participating in the November 26, 2016 governorship election in Ondo have signed a peace accord with the Nigeria Police Force (NPF).
The event was held in Akure where the leaders of the political parties vowed to work with the police to ensure peace during the conduct of the election.
Chairing the event, Police Commissioner Ibifuro-Harrison said that the peace accord was tailored towards eliminating violence and reducing tension during the governorship election in the State.
The police commissioner stated that the leaders of the political parties must play by the rules of politicking in the State and also avoid heating up the polity.
She’s worried at the rate at which hoodlums destroyed political campaign posters of candidates in the State, adding that the force would begin a clampdown on political parties initiating violence before during, and after political campaigns.
“In your neighborhood, anybody you find tearing down posters should be reported to the security agencies. There must not be stone-throwing during campaigns or any other attacks, because anyone caught will be dealt with accordingly,” she said.
The police boss also called on the attendees to conduct their campaigns in accordance with the provision of the rule of law, reminding them of the need to allow peace to reign.
Duyile Korede, the State Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), said his members are ready to support the police and maintain peace in Ondo State.
Mr. Korede also advised the police to beam its searchlight at the local community during the election to avoid manipulation and rigging during the exercise.
Fatai Adams, the Deputy Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), told the police that his members would resist any form of federal might during the election.
Gboyega Adefarati, a representative of the All Progressives Congress (APC), noted that the party is ready to play the game according to the rules and dictates.
He urged the police to display a high level of professionalism during the election and avoid being compromised by unscrupulous politicians.
 
 

			
			Post Views: 
			51