L-R: Chairman, Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria, Mazi Bank-Anthony Okoroafor; Managing Director, Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo), Bayo Ojulari; Managing Director, First Exploration and Petroleum, Ademola Adeyemi-Bero; and the Business Opportunity Manager of SNEPCo, Segun Owolabi, at the recent 2016 edition of the Annual PSRG – Richardson Health, Safety, Security, and Environment Forum where Ojulari bagged the special achievement award.

        Share this on WhatsApp



 
Managing Director of Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo), Bayo Ojulari, has bagged the special achievement award of a leading of the PSRG – Richardson Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE). This award was one of the highpoints of the annual event held in Lagos where experts meet to share ideas and monitor HSSE trends and practices in the oil and gas industry.
Bayo was recognised for his distinguished service and leadership with specific emphasis on his contribution to the development of HSSE management and local content development in Nigeria. The award also recognised Bayo’s contribution to the development of indigenous talents and the advancement of Petroleum Engineering and cross functional businesses in SNEPCo.
In the words of Akin Osuntoki, Chief Executive Officer of Richardson Oil and Gas Ltd, organisers of the event, “Mr. Ojulari has contributed immensely to the development and implementation of sound polices in health, safety, security and preservation of the environment and we are pleased to give him this award.”
Bayo reflected on the award: “I am privileged to have the platform of Shell to contribute my humble effort towards ensuring a safer and better work place and environment. Ultimately, the gesture is a fitting recognition of the collective efforts of colleagues who have worked very hard on HSSE, and it is appropriate that I dedicate the award to all of them.”
The annual HSSE Forum is the result of the collaborative efforts of two companies, PSRG, and Richardson Oil and Gas Limited, and seeks to shine a light on best practice in the HSSE sector. The 2016 session was the 8th in the series, and was themed “Emergency and Disaster Management; Issues, Challenges and Solutions.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment